Data analysts spend a lot of time
organizing data and performing calculations. Luckily, there's lots of different
tools to help them do just that, including spreadsheets. In this video we'll
take a look at some of the ways data analysts use spreadsheets to help them
with their day to day responsibilities. Later, you'll get to test out some of
these things yourself, but for now, let's start with a quick look at how
data analysts use spreadsheets to do their jobs. This will change depending on
the work you need to complete. But here's an overview of
a few of the major tasks. Imagine you work for a construction company. Your company needs your spreadsheet skills
to analyze some data about their expenses, so you access the appropriate data and
add it to your spreadsheet. We won't cover all the details
of this project right now, but you will get a chance to see lots of
spreadsheet features up close and personal as we move forward. What do you do with the data now
that it's in your spreadsheet? Again, this will be different for each job, but you might start by organizing your
data with the task you've been given. For example,
you might put your data in a pivot table. We've talked about pivot tables
before in this course. We'll cover them in more detail later on, but
for now, just think of them as well organized and very useful tables. Next, you might filter
the data in the pivot table. Sorting and filtering data is
a common part of most jobs. This lets you focus only on the data
you'll need for your analysis. In our example, maybe you only need
the expenses for a certain time frame, like the last three months.
After you filtered your data, you could perform some calculations
to learn more about it. Maybe you need to find out which
construction projects ended up costing the most money. This is where formulas and
functions are really handy. We'll talk about them in just a bit, but
formulas and functions are great for doing some quick math, especially once you
run out of fingers and toes to count on. Now you've seen some of the ways data
analysts are using spreadsheets in their day to day work for
a lot of different tasks, including organizing their data and making
calculations. Before you know it we'll have you working in your own spreadsheets.