We've talked about how
spreadsheets are great for organizing data and
performing calculations. Now, it's time to get our hands dirty and start building
a real spreadsheet. In this video, I'm going to
demonstrate some basic tasks we know data analysts
use spreadsheets for, including entering
and organizing data. We'll start with a
step-by-step process to show you some tools to organize
your data in a spreadsheet. Consider these steps the basics. You won't always have to use them when working with a data set, but if your data is a bit
messy when you get it, these steps can help you
get it ready for analysis. Let's start by opening
a new spreadsheet. As a data analyst, you might not start with
a blank spreadsheet, but it's good to know how
to do it, just in case. Start by opening Excel, Google Sheets or whatever spreadsheet software
you're using, then select a new blank file. The first thing you'll
want to do when you open a new spreadsheet is give it
a title. Here's a pro tip. Make your title short, clear, and have it state exactly what the data in the
spreadsheet is about. Trust me, it'll make searching
for it a lot easier. Creating a folder on your
computer specifically for spreadsheets and related files can also make it
easier to find them. For this spreadsheet, it's
already saved in our drive. So we'll open our File
menu to click Move. Then we'll create a new folder, name it "Population Data," and move the spreadsheet there. Our spreadsheet now
has a new home. This will save you a lot of unnecessary clicks and headaches when you look for this file. There's a few different
ways data analysts get data they work with. Depending on the job, you might use data
from an open source, you might be given
data to work with or you might be asked
to find your own data. You'll experience all of
these later in the program. There's a lot of open
data sources online, where data is made
available to the public. For example, we'll use
data from worldbank.org, that's already in
the spreadsheet. The data shows the population of Latin American and Caribbean
countries from 2010-2019. Let's open this spreadsheet. Time to get the data
ready for analysis. We'll start by selecting
the whole sheet and making our columns wider by dragging the boundary
of one of the columns. This will help us see
the data clearly, then we can adjust any individual columns
that need it. You can make columns wider
in other ways as well, but this will work for now. The first row of the
spreadsheet is for data attributes or variables. It's basically labeling the
type of data in each column. Let's make the attributes
stand out from the rest of the rows by selecting it
and filling it with color. We'll also make the labels bold. If we want to add
another data attribute between two of the
other attributes, we can always add a new column. Just click on any cell within a column and use the Insert
menu to add a new one. It will appear next
to the column you originally clicked,
pretty simple. Deleting a column
is just as simple. To delete, right-click in a cell in the column
you want to get rid of. The steps we're showing
may be different depending on the spreadsheet
program you're using, but should be pretty similar. Let's add one more thing to
our data table: borders. This can help you see each
piece of data more clearly. To add borders start by
clicking the Select All button at the top left
corner of your spreadsheet. This is like a magic button
because you can click it whenever you need to make changes to every cell
in your spreadsheet. Then click the Border button in the menu, and choose the
type of borders you want. To keep our spreadsheets uniform, we'll choose borders
for all cells. Just like that, we've
gone from raw to refined. Now our spreadsheet
is filled with data and it's nice
to look at too. Using these organization
tools before you analyze can help you focus on the data
once you start your analysis. Now that we've gone
over some ways spreadsheets can be
used to organize data, you're ready to start
working on them yourself. Later you'll learn more
about spreadsheets, including some common
errors and how to fix them.