Let's recap what we've learned about analytical thinking so far. The 5 key aspects are
visualization, strategy, problem-orientation, correlation, and
using big-picture and detail-oriented thinking. We've seen how you already use them in your everyday life. We also talked about
how different people naturally use certain
types of thinking, but that you can absolutely
grow and develop the skills that might not
come as easily to you. This means you can become
a versatile thinker, which is a very important
part of data analysis. You might naturally be
an analytical thinker, but you can learn to
think creatively and critically, and be
great at all three. The more ways you can think, the easier it is to think outside the box and come up
with fresh ideas. But why is it important to
think in different ways? Well because in data
analysis, solutions are almost never right
in front of you. You need to think critically to find out the right
questions to ask. But you also need
to think creatively to get new and
unexpected answers. Let's talk about some
of the questions data analysts ask when they're on
the hunt for a solution. Here's one that
will come up a lot: What is the root
cause of a problem? A root cause is the reason
why a problem occurs. If we can identify and
get rid of a root cause, we can prevent that problem
from happening again. A simple way to wrap
your head around root causes is with the
process called the Five Whys. In the Five Whys you ask "why" five times to
reveal the root cause. The fifth and final
answer should give you some useful and sometimes
surprising insights. Here's an example of the
Five Whys in action. Let's say you wanted to make a blueberry pie but couldn't
find any blueberries. You've been trying to
solve a problem by asking, why can't I make a blueberry pie? The answer will be, there are no blueberries at the store. There's Why Number 1. You then ask, why were there
no blueberries at the store? Then you discover that the
blueberry bushes don't have enough
fruit this season. That's Why Number 2. Next, you'd ask, why was
there not enough fruit? This would lead to the fact that birds were eating
all the berries. Why Number 3, asked and answered. Now we get to Why Number 4. Ask why a fourth time and
the answer would be that, although the birds
normally prefer mulberries and don't
eat blueberries, the mulberry bush didn't
produce fruit this season, so the birds are eating
blueberries instead. Finally, we get to Why Number 5, which should reveal
the root cause. A late frost damaged
the mulberry bushes, so it didn't produce any fruit. You can't make a blueberry pie because of the late
frost months ago. See how the Five Whys can reveal some very surprising root causes. This is a great trick
to know, and it can be a very helpful process
in data analysis. Another question commonly
asked by data analysts is, where are the gaps
in our process? For this, many people will use something called gap analysis. Gap analysis lets you examine
and evaluate how a process works currently in order to get where you want
to be in the future. Businesses conduct gap analysis to do all kinds of things, such as improve a product
or become more efficient. The general approach
to gap analysis is understanding where you are now compared to where you want to be. Then you can identify the
gaps that exist between the current and future state and determine how to bridge them. A third question that data
analysts ask a lot is, what did we not consider before? This is a great way to think
about what information or procedure might be
missing from a process, so you can identify ways to make better decisions and
strategies moving forward. These are just a few
examples of the kinds of questions data analysts
use at their jobs every day. As you begin your career, I'm sure you'll think
of a whole lot more. The way data analysts
think and ask questions plays a big part in how
businesses make decisions. That's why analytical thinking and understanding how to ask the right questions can have such a huge impact on the
overall success of a business. Later, we'll talk more
about how data-driven decisions can lead to
successful outcomes.