Now that you understand
the different ways to organize data in a database, let's talk about how you
can describe that data. In this video, we'll start
exploring metadata, which is a very important aspect
of database management. Metadata is an abstract
concept, though. Let's kick things off with
a simple, everyday example. Did you know that every time a photo is taken
with a smartphone, data is automatically collected and stored within that photo? Take a look. Choose any
photo on your computer. Here's a cute shot of my
friend's dogs, Rudy and Matilda. On your photo, right-click
on "Get Info" or "Properties." This will give you
the photo's metadata, which may tell you the
type of file it is; the date and time it was taken; the geolocation, or
where it was taken; what kind of device was used to take
the photo; and much more. Pretty amazing, right? Here's
another example. Every time you send
or receive an email, metadata is sent right
along with that message. You can find it by clicking on "Show Original" or "View
Message Details." An email message's metadata
includes its subject, who it's from, who it's to, and the date and
time it was sent. The metadata even
knows how quickly it was delivered after
the sender pressed, "Send." Metadata is information
that's used to describe the data that's
contained in something, like a photo or an email. Keep in mind that metadata
is not the data itself. Instead, it's data
about the data. In data analytics, metadata
helps data analysts interpret the contents of
the data within a database. That's why metadata is so important when working
with databases. It tells an analyst what
the data is all about. That makes it possible
to put the data to work solving problems and making
data-driven decisions. As a data analyst, there are three common types of metadata that you'll come across: descriptive, structural,
and administrative. Descriptive metadata is metadata that describes a piece of data and can be used to identify it at a
later point in time. For instance, the
descriptive metadata of a book in a
library would include the code you see on
its spine, known as a unique International
Standard Book Number, also called the ISBN. It would also include the
book's author and title. Next is structural metadata, which is metadata that
indicates how a piece of data is organized and
whether it's part of one or more than
one data collection. Let's head back to the library. An example of structural data
would be how the pages of a book are put together to
create different chapters. It's important to note
that structural metadata also keeps track of the
relationship between two things. For example, it can show us
that the digital document of a book manuscript was actually the original version
of a now printed book. Finally, we have
administrative metadata. Administrative metadata
is metadata that indicates the technical
source of a digital asset. When we looked at the
metadata inside the photo, that was administrative metadata. It shows you the
type of file it was, the date and time it was
taken, and much more. Here's one final thought to
help you understand metadata. If you're on your way to the
library to pick out a book, you could research
a book's title, author, length, and
number of chapters. That's all metadata, and it can tell you a lot
about the book, but you have to actually read the book to know
what it's all about. Likewise, you can read
about data analytics, but you have to take
this course to earn the Google Data
Analytics certificate. Keep moving forward to
gain that new perspective.