Metadata and metadata
repositories are very powerful tools in
the data analyst toolbox. As we discussed previously, data analysts use them to create a single source of truth, keep data consistent and uniform, and ensure that the data
we work with is accurate, precise, relevant, and timely. These tools also make
it easier to access and use data by
standardizing our processes. In this video, we'll explore
more components of metadata and learn how metadata analysts work to keep things organized. We know that the amount of data out there continues to grow, but lots of businesses just
aren't using their data. Sometimes, they don't
know what they have, sometimes they can't
find it or sometimes a business just doesn't trust it. Especially in
bigger companies, data can span numerous
different processes and systems. And pulling together data from so many places can
be a big challenge. For example, let's say a
company starts out with a traditional data storage
system in its offices. But then, as the amount of data it owns continues to expand, cloud storage is needed too. Plus, this company could
also be accessing and using second or third party data
from a partner organization. Each of these systems has its own rules and
requirements, so each organizes the data in a completely different way,
adding even more complexity. It's no wonder so
many organizations struggle to find the right
data at the right moment. On the other hand,
metadata is stored in a single, central location
and it gives the company standardized information
about all of its data. This is done in two ways. First, metadata
includes information about where each system is located and where the data sets are located
within those systems. Second, the metadata
describes how all of the data is connected
between the various systems. Another important aspect of metadata is something
called data governance. Data governance is
a process to ensure the formal management of
a company’s data assets. This gives an organization better control of their data and helps a company manage issues related to data
security and privacy, integrity, usability, and internal and
external data flows. It's important to note that
data governance is about more than just standardizing
terminology and procedures. It's about the roles
and responsibilities of the people who work with
the metadata every day. These are metadata
specialists, and they organize and maintain
company data, ensuring that it's of the
highest possible quality. These people create basic
metadata identification and discovery information, describe the way different
data sets work together, and explain the many different
types of data resources. Metadata specialists also
create very important standards that everyone follows and the models used to
organize the data. There's one thing they
all have in common. Whether they work
at a tech company, a nonprofit association,
or a financial institution, metadata analysts are
great team players. They're passionate
about making data accessible by sharing with colleagues and
other stakeholders. If you're looking for a role that encourages you to explore all the data that the
digital world has to offer, following the path to becoming a metadata analyst may be
the right choice for you. But either way, businesses of all kinds face market trends and competition, and they
need to understand why one process works
while another doesn't. Data analytics allows
them to answer key questions and keep improving.