My name is Megan, and I am an agency
measurement lead here at Google. Basically, I help to demystify measurement
and analytics for advertising agencies. So people that are tasked with
executing media plans for advertisers but also people that are interested in
measuring the impact that media is having for their clients. So I've been doing this for
about 17 years now and have seen a lot of evolution in the space
from data availability, from different modeling techniques becoming more
advanced but also more accessible, and it's just been a really cool journey
to see how it's evolved, how analytics has become more mainstream, and how people
are getting more excited about it. Metadata is basically the key
to your larger data set. It helps describe what's in the rows and the columns of the data that
you'll be working with. Metadata is kind of a shorthand or a CliffsNotes version of a much
more complex set of information. It can be helpful in just kind of helping
you get a handle on what's in a single data set that you may have access to. It's an important part of the discovery
process of any analytics project as you're working with either a client or a vendor
to understand the resources that you'll have to address a problem and
what might be missing. It just gives you the keys to unlock
that data in a really simple and straightforward way and is a great communication tool. When I was working for an advertiser, one of the things that we were trying to
do was build something called a data lake. So essentially, this is bringing together
all of the sources of data that you might want to use in an analysis into one
place, which can be really, really tricky. One of the benefits of metadata was
figuring out where we had sources that may overlap, where we had data
sources that had things in common. And what the unique pieces of
information were that we were getting from each of those data sets. So as we thought about tackling this
really huge and important project, we were able to use
metadata to quickly and easily get to the basic constructs
that we were trying to tackle. When you're working with people who maybe
don't have analytics as their day job, getting that "aha" moment, helping them understand
how measurement and analytics are tools that can help them
achieve their goals, is really important. And just getting to that idea of you
made something that was previously inaccessible a little bit more
accessible for that team and something they feel comfortable
putting into practice is really important and really kind of
a great way to come out of a partnership. [SOUND]