In the last video, we learned how you can
visualize your data using reports and dashboards to show off your
findings in interesting ways. In one of our examples, the company wanted to see the sales
revenue of each salesperson. That specific measurement of
data is done using metrics. Now, I want to tell you a little bit more
about the difference between data and metrics. And how metrics can be used to
turn data into useful information. A metric is a single, quantifiable type
of data that can be used for measurement. Think of it this way. Data starts as a collection of raw facts,
until we organize them into individual metrics that
represent a single type of data. Metrics can also be combined
into formulas that you can plug your numerical data into. In our earlier sales revenue example
all that data doesn't mean much unless we use a specific
metric to organize it. So let's use revenue by individual
salesperson as our metric. Now we can see whose sales
brought in the highest revenue. Metrics usually involve simple math. Revenue, for example, is the number of
sales multiplied by the sales price. Choosing the right metric is key. Data contains a lot of raw details
about the problem we're exploring. But we need the right metrics
to get the answers we're looking for. Different industries will use all kinds of
metrics to measure things in a data set. Let's look at some more ways businesses
in different industries use metrics. So you can see how you might apply
metrics to your collected data. Ever heard of ROI? Companies use this metric all the time. ROI, or Return on Investment is
essentially a formula designed using metrics that let a business know
how well an investment is doing. The ROI is made up of two metrics, the net profit over a period of time and
the cost of investment. By comparing these two metrics, profit and
cost of investment, the company can analyze the data they have to see
how well their investment is doing. This can then help them decide
how to invest in the future and which investments to prioritize. We see metrics used in marketing too. For example, metrics can be used to
help calculate customer retention rates, or a company's ability to
keep its customers over time. Customer retention rates can help the
company compare the number of customers at the beginning and the end of a period
to see their retention rates. This way the company knows how successful
their marketing strategies are and if they need to research new
approaches to bring back more repeat customers. Different industries use all
kinds of different metrics. But there's one thing
they all have in common: they're all trying to meet
a specific goal by measuring data. This metric goal is a measurable goal set
by a company and evaluated using metrics. And just like there are a lot
of possible metrics, there are lots of possible goals too. Maybe an organization wants to meet
a certain number of monthly sales, or maybe a certain percentage
of repeat customers. By using metrics to focus on
individual aspects of your data, you can start to see the story
your data is telling. Metric goals and formulas are great
ways to measure and understand data. But they're not the only ways. We'll talk more about how to interpret and
understand data throughout this course.