Now that we've talked about
six basic problem types, it's time to start solving them. To do that, data analysts start
by asking the right questions. In this video, we're going to learn
how to ask effective questions that lead to key insights you can use
to solve all kinds of problems. As a data analyst,
I ask questions constantly. It's a huge part of the job. If someone requests that
I work on a project, I ask questions to make sure we're on the
same page about the plan and the goals. And when I do get a result, I question it. Is the data showing me
something superficially? Is there a conflict somewhere
that needs to be resolved? The more questions you ask,
the more you'll learn about your data and the more powerful your insights
will be at the end of the day. Some questions are more
effective than others. Let's say you're having
lunch with a friend and they say, "These are the best
sandwiches ever, aren't they?" Well, that question doesn't
really give you the opportunity to share your own opinion, especially if you happen to disagree and
didn't enjoy the sandwich very much. This is called a leading question
because it's leading you to answer in a certain way. Or maybe you're working on a project and
you decide to interview a family member. Say you ask your uncle,
did you enjoy growing up in Malaysia? He may reply, "Yes." But you haven't learned much
about his experiences there. Your question was closed-ended. That means it can be
answered with a yes or no. These kinds of questions rarely
lead to valuable insights. Now what if someone asks you,
do you prefer chocolate or vanilla? Well, what are they
specifically talking about? Ice cream, pudding,
coffee flavoring or something else? What if you like chocolate ice cream but
vanilla in your coffee? What if you don't like either flavor? That's the problem with this question. It's too vague and lacks context. Knowing the difference between effective
and ineffective questions is essential for your future career as a data analyst. After all, the data analyst
process starts with the ask phase. So it's important that we
ask the right questions. Effective questions
follow the SMART methodology. That means they're specific, measurable,
action-oriented, relevant and time-bound. Let's break that down. Specific questions are simple,
significant and focused on a single topic or
a few closely related ideas. This helps us collect information that's
relevant to what we're investigating. If a question is too general, try to narrow it down by
focusing on just one element. For example, instead of asking
a closed-ended question, like, are kids getting enough
physical activities these days? Ask what percentage of kids
achieve the recommended 60 minutes of physical activity
at least five days a week? That question is much more specific and
can give you more useful information. Now, let's talk about
measurable questions. Measurable questions can be quantified and
assessed. An example of an unmeasurable question
would be, why did a recent video go viral? Instead, you could ask how many times
was our video shared on social channels the first week it was posted? That question is measurable because
it lets us count the shares and arrive at a concrete number. Okay, now we've come to
action-oriented questions. Action-oriented questions
encourage change. You might remember that problem solving
is about seeing the current state and figuring out how to transform
it into the ideal future state. Well, action-oriented
questions help you get there. So rather than asking, how can we get customers to
recycle our product packaging? You could ask, what design features will
make our packaging easier to recycle? This brings you answers you can act on. All right,
let's move on to relevant questions. Relevant questions matter, are important and have significance to
the problem you're trying to solve. Let's say you're working on a problem
related to a threatened species of frog. And you asked, why does it matter that Pine Barrens
tree frogs started disappearing? This is an irrelevant
question because the answer won't help us find a way to prevent
these frogs from going extinct. A more relevant question would be, what
environmental factors changed in Durham, North Carolina between 1983
and 2004 that could cause Pine Barrens tree frogs to disappear
from the Sandhills Regions? This question would give us answers
we can use to help solve our problem. That's also a great example for
our final point, time-bound questions. Time-bound questions specify
the time to be studied. The time period we want
to study is 1983 to 2004. This limits the range of possibilities and enables the data analyst
to focus on relevant data. Okay, now that you have a general
understanding of SMART questions, there's something else
that's very important to keep in mind when crafting questions,
fairness. We've touched on fairness before,
but as a quick reminder, fairness means ensuring that your
questions don't create or reinforce bias. To talk about this,
let's go back to our sandwich example. There we had an unfair question because it
was phrased to lead you toward a certain answer. This made it difficult to answer honestly
if you disagreed about the sandwich quality. Another common example of an unfair
question is one that makes assumptions. For instance, let's say a satisfaction survey is given
to people who visit a science museum. If the survey asks,
what do you love most about our exhibits? This assumes that the customer loves
the exhibits which may or may not be true. Fairness also means crafting questions
that make sense to everyone. It's important for
questions to be clear and have a straightforward wording
that anyone can easily understand. Unfair questions also can make your
job as a data analyst more difficult. They lead to unreliable feedback and missed opportunities to gain
some truly valuable insights. You've learned a lot about how
to craft effective questions, like how to use the SMART framework
while creating your questions and how to ensure that your questions
are fair and objective. Moving forward,
you'll explore different types of data and learn how each is used to
guide business decisions. You'll also learn more about
visualizations and how metrics or measures can help create success. It's going to be great!