[MUSIC]
Hi, I'm Evan. I'm a learning portfolio
manager here at Google, and I have one of the coolest
jobs in the world where I get to look at all the different
technologies that affect big data and then work them into training courses
like this one for students to take. I wish I had a course like this
when I was first coming out of college or high school. It was honestly a data analyst course
that's geared in the way like this one is if you've already taken
some of the videos really prepares you to do
anything you want. It will open all of those doors that you want for any of those roles inside
of the data curriculum. Well, what are some of those roles? There are so many different career paths
for someone who's interested in data. Generally, if you're like me, you'll come in through the door as a data
analyst maybe working with spreadsheets, maybe working with small,
medium, and large databases, but all you have to remember
is 3 different core roles. Now there's many in special, whether
specialties, within each of these different careers, but
these three are the data analysts, which is generally someone who
works with SQL, spreadsheets, databases, might work as
a business intelligence team creating those dashboards. Now where does all that data come from? Generally, a data analyst will
work with a data engineer to turn that raw data into actionable pipelines. So you have data analysts,
data engineers, and then lastly, you might have data scientists who
basically say the data engineers have built these beautiful pipelines. Sometimes the analyst do that too.
The analysts have provided us with clean and actionable data. Then the data scientists then worked actually to turn
it into really cool machine learning models or
statistical inferences that are just well beyond anything you
could have ever imagined. We'll share a lot of resources in links for
ways that you can get excited for each of these different roles. And the best part is, if you're like me when I went into school, I didn't
know what I wanted to do and you don't have to know at the outset
which path you want to go down. Try 'em all. See what you really, really like. It's very personal. Becoming
a data analyst is so exciting. Why?
Because it's not just like a means to an end. It's just taking a career path where so
many bright people have gone before and have made the tools and technologies
that much easier for you and me today. For example, when I was starting
to learn SQL or the structured query language that you're going to
be learning as part of this course, I was doing it on my local laptop and
each of the queries would take like 20, 30 minutes to run and
it was very hard for me to keep track of different SQL
statements that I was writing or share them with somebody else. That
was about 10 or 15 years ago. Now, through all
the different companies and all the different tools that
are making data analysis tools and technologies easier for you, you're going
to have a blast creating these insights with a lot less of the overhead that
I had when I first started out. So I'm really excited to
hear what you think and what your experience is going to be.