Hey, there. We've all probably dreamed of having
a superpower at least once in our lives. I know I have. I'd love to be able to fly. But there's another superpower you might
not have heard of: statistical power. Statistical power is the probability of
getting meaningful results from a test. I'm guessing that's not a superpower
any of you have dreamed about. Still, it's a pretty
great data superpower. For data analysts, your projects
might begin with the test or study. Hypothesis testing is a way
to see if a survey or experiment has meaningful results. Here's an example. Let's say you work for a restaurant chain
that's planning a marketing campaign for their new milkshakes. You need to test the ad on a group
of customers before turning it into a nationwide ad campaign. In the test, you want to check whether
customers like or dislike the campaign. You also want to rule out any factors
outside of the ad that might lead them to say they don't like it. Using all your customers would be
too time consuming and expensive. So, you'll need to figure out how many
customers you'll need to show that the ad is effective. Fifty probably wouldn't be enough. Even if you randomly chose 50 customers, you might end up with customers
who don't like milkshakes at all. And if that happens, you won't be able to
measure the effectiveness of your ad in getting more milkshake orders since no
one in the sample size would order them. That's why you need a larger sample size: so you can make sure you get a good number
of all types of people for your test. Usually, the larger the sample size,
the greater the chance you'll have statistically significant
results with your test. And that's statistical power. In this case, using as many customers as
possible will show the actual differences between the groups who like or dislike the ad versus people whose
decision wasn't based on the ad at all. There are ways to accurately
calculate statistical power, but we won't go into them here. You might need to calculate it
on your own as a data analyst. For now, you should know that statistical
power is usually shown as a value out of one. So if your statistical power is 0.6,
that's the same thing as saying 60%. In the milk shake ad test, if you found a statistical power of 60%,
that means there's a 60% chance of you getting a statistically significant
result on the ad's effectiveness. "Statistically significant"
is a term that is used in statistics. If you want to learn more about the
technical meaning, you can search online. But in basic terms,
if a test is statistically significant, it means the results of the test are real
and not an error caused by random chance. So there's a 60% chance that
the results of the milkshake ad test are reliable and real and a 40% chance that the result
of the test is wrong. Usually, you need a statistical
power of at least 0.8 or 80% to consider your results
statistically significant. Let's check out one more scenario. We'll stick with milkshakes because,
well, because I like milkshakes. Imagine you work for a restaurant chain
that wants to launch a brand-new birthday cake flavored milkshake. This milkshake will be more expensive
to produce than your other milkshakes. Your company hopes that the buzz around
the new flavor will bring in more customers and money to offset this cost. They want to test this out in
a few restaurant locations first. So let's figure out how many locations
you'd have to use to be confident in your results. First, you'd have to think about
what might prevent you from getting statistically significant results. Are there restaurants running any
other promotions that might bring in new customers? Do some restaurants have customers
that always buy the newest item, no matter what it is? Do some location have construction
that recently started, that would prevent customers from
even going to the restaurant? To get a higher statistical power, you'd
have to consider all of these factors before you decide how many locations
to include in your sample size for your study. You want to make sure any effect is most
likely due to the new milkshake flavor, not another factor. The measurable effects would
be an increase in sales or the number of customers at the
locations in your sample size. That's it for now. Coming up, we'll explore sample
sizes in more detail, so you can get a better idea of how
they impact your tests and studies. In the meantime, you've gotten to know
a little bit more about milkshakes and superpowers. And of course, statistical power. Sadly, only statistical power can
truly be useful for data analysts. Though putting on my cape and flying to grab a milkshake right
now does sound pretty good.