Great to see you again. In this video, we'll
go into more detail about sample sizes
and data integrity. If you've ever been to a
store that hands out samples, you know it's one of
life's little pleasures. For me, anyway! those small samples are
also a very smart way for businesses to learn more
about their products from customers without having to
give everyone a free sample. A lot of organizations use
sample size in a similar way. They take one part
of something larger. In this case, a sample
of a population. Sometimes they'll
perform complex tests on their data to see if it meets
their business objectives. We won't go into all
the calculations needed to do this effectively. Instead, we'll focus
on a "big picture" look at the process
and what it involves. As a quick reminder, sample size is a part of a population that is
representative of the population. For businesses, it's a
very important tool. It can be both expensive and time-consuming to analyze an
entire population of data. Using sample size usually makes the most sense and can still lead to valid and
useful findings. There are handy calculators online that can help
you find sample size. You need to input the
confidence level, population size, and
margin of error. We've talked about
population size before. To build on that,
we'll learn about confidence level and
margin of error. Knowing about these
concepts will help you understand why you need them
to calculate sample size. The confidence level is
the probability that your sample accurately reflects
the greater population. You can think of it the same way as confidence
in anything else. It's how strongly
you feel that you can rely on something or someone. Having a 99 percent
confidence level is ideal. But most industries
hope for at least a 90 or 95 percent
confidence level. Industries like pharmaceuticals usually want a confidence level that's as high as possible when they are using a sample size. This makes sense because they're testing
medicines and need to be sure they work and are
safe for everyone to use. For other studies, organizations might
just need to know that the test or survey results have them heading in
the right direction. For example, if a paint company is testing out new colors, a lower confidence level is okay. You also want to consider the margin of error
for your study. You'll learn more
about this soon, but it basically tells you how close your sample size
results are to what your results would be if you use the entire population that
your sample size represents. Think of it like this. Let's say that the principal of a middle school approaches you with a study about
students' candy preferences. They need to know an appropriate sample size, and they need it now. The school has a student
population of 500, and they're asking for
a confidence level of 95 percent and a margin
of error of 5 percent. We've set up a calculator
in a spreadsheet, but you can also easily find
this type of calculator by searching "sample size
calculator" on the internet. Just like those calculators, our spreadsheet calculator
doesn't show any of the more complex calculations for figuring out sample size. All we need to do is input the numbers for our population, confidence level,
and margin of error. And when we type 500 for
our population size, 95 for our confidence
level percentage, 5 for our margin
of error percentage, the result is about 218. That means for this study, an appropriate sample
size would be 218. If we surveyed 218 students and found that 55 percent of
them preferred chocolate, then we could be
pretty confident that would be true of
all 500 students. 218 is the minimum number of people we need
to survey based on our criteria of a 95
percent confidence level and a 5 percent margin of error. In case you're wondering, the confidence level
and margin of error don't have to add
up to 100 percent. They're independent
of each other. So let's say we change
our margin of error from 5 percent
to 3 percent. Then we find that our sample size would need to be larger, about 341 instead of 218, to make the results of the study more representative
of the population. Feel free to practice with
an online calculator. Knowing sample size and how to find it will help you
when you work with data. We've got more useful
knowledge coming your way, including learning about
margin of error. See you soon!