Formulas are a
great way to become more efficient when
using spreadsheets, especially when you add shortcuts like copying and
pasting, into the mix. As you progress as
a data analyst, you'll most likely learn more shortcuts to
help your process. But now it's time to
move on to functions. While they're closely
related to formulas, they're not exactly the same. By the end of this video, you'll understand
the difference and know when to use them both. In the world of spreadsheets a function is a
preset command that automatically performs
a specific process or task using the data. You might remember
some of the shortcuts we learned that can be
used with formulas. Think of functions as the
most useful of the shortcuts. The good news is a lot of spreadsheet functions have names that tell you what they do. There are tons of
functions out there. As you continue to work
with spreadsheets, you'll find that you
use certain ones a lot, and others, rarely or not at all. For now, let's take a look at some of the
functions that we can apply to our sales data
from the previous video. We'll start with total sales. Let's use the SUM function
for this in cell F2. The first steps are pretty similar to what we did
in the last video. First, we'll select the cell where we want the
calculation to appear. Type equals, then add the
word SUM as our function. One of the great
things about functions is they don't always
need operators, like a plus sign for addition. In this case, after
the open parentheses, you can go ahead and select the range of cells you're adding. A colon between the
cell references shows that you're using a range. In this case, the range includes
cells from the same row. After the closed
parentheses, we press Enter. Just like that, our total
sales number appears. Just like the formula
we used before, functions can be
copied and pasted into other cells in
the same column. But let's undo that
step so that you can see another way to copy
a function or formula. Spreadsheets have something
called a fill handle. It's a little box that appears in the lower right-hand corner
when you click on a cell. If you rest your
cursor on the box, you can then drag
the fill handle to the other boxes in the
same row or column. Any formula or function
in that cell will automatically be added to
the cells you fill plus, the fill handle will
update the formula so the cell references match the row of the columns
of the cells you fill. This means the formula
is calculated based on the data in each
separate row or column. Filling won't work
for every situation, but it's still a
pretty great trick. Now let's find the
average sale for each month using the
AVERAGE function. Different functions perform
different calculations, but they work in the same way. Keep in mind, not
every calculation you'll come across has its
own function to help you. For example, to find the percent change in sales
between June and July, you'd use the same formula
you used in an earlier video. Let's say you're asked to find the lowest monthly
sales in this data set. There's a function for that. It's called the MIN function, which stands for minimum. Here's how it works. Say you need to find the
lowest monthly sales for the whole set. All you have to do is
set up the function. Then after the open parenthesis, select the values
from all three rows. This might be
important information for your stake holders. Let's add color to the
cell with that value, in your data set to
make it stand out. In this case, click on cell
D2 and then fill color icon, which looks like a paint can, then choose a color. I'll use yellow here. You can follow the same steps for the highest sales by using the, wait for it, MAX function. Looks like we have
an error message. What could be wrong? We forgot to include an open parentheses
after the function. No worries, it's a quick fix. But this is a good reminder
to continually check the format of your functions and formulas as you use them. We'll learn more
about Error messages and how to work with them later. That's better. Now we'll add color to the cell with
the highest sales too. This is just one way
to highlight key data. You'll find out about
some others later. You've now had a peek
at some ways you can add and organize
data in a spreadsheet. You've also seen how
powerful formulas and functions can be when
applied to real world data. As a data analyst, this is just the beginning of your experience
with spreadsheets. You'll soon find out how much more spreadsheets
have to offer. In the meantime, you're free to practice some of these formulas, functions, and other
processes on your own. It can be fun to experiment, and see all that
spreadsheets can do. Soon, you will switch from spreadsheets to
structured thinking. The data analytics pieces are
starting to fit together. Exciting stuff is coming
right up. So stick around.