Hello again. So far
we've learned that the biases we have as people can end up creating biased data, we're biased when we have
preferences based on our own preconceived or even
subconscious notions. When data is biased, it can systematically
skew results in a certain direction,
making them unreliable. We covered this earlier using sampling bias as an example. Sampling bias is
when a sample isn't representative of the
population as a whole. You can avoid this
by making sure the sample is chosen at random, so that all parts
of the population have an equal chance
of being included. If you don't use random sampling
during data collection, you end up favoring one outcome. Here's a simple
way to look at it. Let's say there are 50
students in one class, and you want to know
if the majority of the class prefers
warm or cold weather. you decide to survey the
first 10 students you meet, and based on their responses, you determine that the entire
class prefers warm weather. But wait, there's
some bias there. those first 10 people
were all women, so only women were
included in your survey. Your survey wasn't a
fair representation of the entire class because
it didn't include other identifiers across
the gender spectrum. If you'd use a more
randomized sample of the population that
included all genders, you'd have an unbiased sample. Unbiased sampling results
in a sample that's representative of the
population being measured. Another great way to discover
if you're working with unbiased data is to bring the results to life
with visualizations. In the class example
we just covered, you could visualize
the number of students in the class overall, and their gender identities
with a bar chart. You could then compare that to a similar bar chart showing
the students you surveyed. This will help you
easily identify any misalignment
with your sample. Okay, now that we know what bias looks like from a sampling
perspective, let's explore some
other types of bias, and how to recognize them.