I may be biased, but I think learning
about the good, and the bad traits of data,
is pretty fascinating. Next up, we'll
discover that there's lots of different
types of data bias, besides sampling bias,
which we covered earlier. As a quick refresher,
sampling bias, is when a sample isn't representative of the
population as a whole. For example, if you're doing
research on commuters, and only survey people
walking by in the sidewalk, you'll miss out on input from
people who ride bicycles, drive, or take the subway. You need all sides of the
story to avoid sampling bias. In this video, we'll explore three more types of data bias, observer bias,
interpretation bias, and confirmation bias, and
we'll learn how to avoid them. Let's start with observer bias, which is sometimes referred to as experimenter bias
or research bias. Basically, it's the tendency for different people to observe
things differently. You might remember earlier, we learned that scientists use observations a lot in their work, like when they're
looking at bacteria under a microscope
to gather data. While two scientists looking
into the same microscope might see different things,
that's observer bias. Another time observer bias might happen is during manual
blood pressure readings. Because the pressure
meter is so sensitive, health care workers often get
pretty different results. Usually, they'll just round up to the nearest whole number to compensate for the
margin of error. But if doctors
consistently round up, or down the blood pressure
readings on their patients, health conditions may be missed, and any studies
involving their patients wouldn't have precise,
and accurate data. Another common type of data
bias is interpretation bias. The tendency to always interpret ambiguous situations
in a positive, or negative way.
Here's an example. Let's say you're having
lunch with a colleague, when you get a voicemail
from your boss, asking you to call her back. You put the phone down in a huff, certain that she's angry, and you're on the hot
seat for something. But when you play the
message for your friend, he doesn't hear anger at all, he actually thinks she sounds
calm and straightforward. Interpretation bias, can lead to two people seeing or hearing
the exact same thing, and interpreting it in a
variety of different ways, because they have different
backgrounds, and experiences. Your history with your boss made you interpret
the call one way, while your friend
interpreted it in another way, because
they're strangers. Add these interpretations
to a data analysis, and you can get bias results. The last type of
bias we'll cover, reminds me of the saying, people see what they want to see. That pretty much sums up
confirmation bias in a nutshell. Confirmation bias, is the
tendency to search for, or interpret information in a way that confirms
preexisting beliefs. Someone might be so eager
to confirm a gut feeling, that they only notice
things that support it, ignoring all other signals. This happens all the
time in everyday life. We might get our news from a certain website because the
writers share our beliefs, or we socialize
with people because we know that they
hold similar views. After all, conflicting viewpoints might cause us to
question our worldview, which can lead us to changing
our whole belief system, and let's face, it,
change is tough. But you know what's even tougher? Doing good work when
you have bad data, so it's important to
keep bias out of it. The four types of
data bias we covered, sampling bias, observer bias, interpretation bias,
and confirmation bias, are all unique, but they do
have one thing in common. They each affect
the way we collect, and make sense of the data. Unfortunately, they're
also just a small sample, pun intended, of the
types of bias you may encounter in your
career as a data analyst. But the good news is,
once you know a few, you'll find yourself
constantly on guard for bias in any form. It's also important to remember, that no matter what
kind of data you use, all of it needs to be inspected for accuracy, and
trustworthiness. We'll talk more about
that soon when we start exploring bad data. Bye for now.