Hello again. You've already learned
about being a data analyst and how this program will help
prepare you for your future career. Now, it's time to explore
the data ecosystem, find out where data analytics fits into
that system, and go over some common misconceptions you might run into
in the field of data analytics. To put it simply, an ecosystem is a group
of elements that interact with one another. Ecosystems can be large,
like the jungle in a tropical rainforest or the Australian outback. Or, tiny, like tadpoles in a puddle,
or bacteria on your skin. And just like the kangaroos and
koala bears in the Australian outback, data lives inside its own ecosystem too. Data ecosystems are made up of various
elements that interact with one another in order to produce, manage, store,
organize, analyze, and share data. These elements include hardware and
software tools, and the people who use them. People like you. Data can also be found in
something called the cloud. The cloud is a place to keep data online,
rather than on a computer hard drive. So instead of storing data somewhere
inside your organization's network, that data is accessed over the internet. So the cloud is just a term we use
to describe the virtual location. The cloud plays a big part in the data
ecosystem, and as a data analyst, it's your job to harness the power of that data
ecosystem, find the right information, and provide the team with analysis
that helps them make smart decisions. For example, you could tap into
your retail store's database, which is an ecosystem filled
with customer names, addresses, previous purchases, and customer reviews. As a data analyst, you could use this
information to predict what these customers will buy in the future, and make sure the store has the products
and stock when they're needed. As another example, let's think about a data ecosystem
used by a human resources department. This ecosystem would include information
like postings from job websites, stats on the current labor market, employment rates, and social media
data on prospective employees. A data analyst could use this information
to help their team recruit new workers and improve employee engagement and
retention rates. But data ecosystems aren't just for stores
and offices. They work on farms, too. Agricultural companies regularly
use data ecosystems that include information including geological
patterns in weather movements. Data analysts can use this data to
help farmers predict crop yields. Some data analysts are even using
data ecosystems to save real environmental ecosystems. At the Scripps Institution of
Oceanography, coral reefs all over the world are monitored digitally, so they
can see how organisms change over time, track their growth, and
measure any increases or declines in individual colonies. The possibilities are endless. Okay, now let's talk about some common
misconceptions you might come across. First is the difference between
data scientists and data analysts. It's easy to confuse the two, but
what they do is actually very different. Data science is defined as
creating new ways of modeling and understanding the unknown
by using raw data. Here's a good way to think about it. Data scientists create new questions
using data, while analysts find answers to existing questions by
creating insights from data sources. There are also many words and phrases you'll hear throughout this course,
that are easy to get mixed up. For example, data analysis and
data analytics sound the same, but they're actually very different
things. Let's start with analysis. You've already learned that data analysis
is the collection, transformation, and organization of data in
order to draw conclusions, make predictions, and
drive informed decision-making. Data analytics in the simplest
terms is the science of data. It's a very broad concept that encompasses
everything from the job of managing and using data to the tools and methods that
data workers use each and every day. So when you think about data,
data analysis and the data ecosystem, it's important
to understand that all of these things fit under the data
analytics umbrella. All right, now that you know a little
more about the data ecosystem and the differences between data analysis and
data analytics, you're ready to explore how data is
used to make effective decisions. You'll get to see data-driven
decision-making, in action.