So far, you've learned a lot about
how to think like a data analyst. We've explored a few
different ways of thinking. And now, I want to take that one step
further by using a mathematical approach to problem-solving. Mathematical thinking is a powerful skill
you can use to help you solve problems and see new solutions. So, let's take some time to talk about
what mathematical thinking is, and how you can start using it. Using a mathematical approach doesn't mean
you have to suddenly become a math whiz. It means looking at a problem and
logically breaking it down step-by-step, so you can see the relationship
of patterns in your data, and use that to analyze your problem. This kind of thinking can also help you
figure out the best tools for analysis because it lets us see the different
aspects of a problem and choose the best logical approach. There are a lot of factors to consider
when choosing the most helpful tool for your analysis. One way you could decide which tool to
use is by the size of your dataset. When working with data, you'll find
that there's big and small data. Small data can be really small. These kinds of data tend to be made up
of datasets concerned with specific metrics over a short,
well defined period of time. Like how much water you drink in a day. Small data can be useful for
making day-to-day decisions, like deciding to drink more water. But it doesn't have a huge impact
on bigger frameworks like business operations. You might use spreadsheets to organize and analyze smaller datasets
when you first start out. Big data on the other hand has larger, less specific datasets covering
a longer period of time. They usually have to be
broken down to be analyzed. Big data is useful for looking at large-
scale questions and problems, and they help companies make big decisions. When you're working with data on this
larger scale, you might switch to SQL. Let's look at an example of how a data
analyst working in a hospital might use mathematical thinking to solve
a problem with the right tools. The hospital might find that they're
having a problem with over or under use of their beds. Based on that, the hospital could
make bed optimization a goal. They want to make sure that beds are
available to patients who need them, but not waste hospital resources like space or
money on maintaining empty beds. Using mathematical thinking, you can break
this problem down into a step-by-step process to help you find
patterns in their data. There's a lot of variables
in this scenario. But for now, let's keep it simple and
focus on just a few key ones. There are metrics that are related to this
problem that might show us patterns in the data: for example,
maybe the number of beds open and the number of beds used
over a period of time. There's actually already a formula for
this. It's called the bed occupancy rate, and it's calculated using the total
number of inpatient days, and the total number of available
beds over a given period of time. What we want to do now is take our key
variables and see how their relationship to each other might show us patterns that
can help the hospital make a decision. To do that, we have to choose the tool
that makes sense for this task. Hospitals generate a lot of patient
data over a long period of time. So logically, a tool that's capable
of handling big datasets is a must. SQL is a great choice. In this case, you discover that
the hospital always has unused beds. Knowing that, they can choose to get rid
of some beds, which saves them space and money that they can use to buy and
store protective equipment. By considering all of the individual
parts of this problem logically, mathematical thinking helped us see new
perspectives that led us to a solution. Well, that's it for now. Great job. You've covered a lot of material already. You've learned about how empowering
data can be in decision-making, the difference between quantitative and
qualitative analysis, using reports and dashboards for
data visualization, metrics, and using a mathematical
approach to problem-solving. Coming up next,
we'll be tackling spreadsheet basics. You'll get to put what you've
learned into action and learn a new tool to help you
along the data analysis process. See you soon.