Let's kick things off by
traveling back in time, well, in our minds at least. My real time machine's
in the shop. Imagine you're back
in middle school and you've entered a project
for the science fair. You worked hard for
weeks perfecting every element and they're
about to announce the winners. You close your eyes, take a deep breath, and you hear them call your
name for second place. Bummer, you really wanted
that first-place trophy, but hey, you'll take the
ribbon for recognition. The next day you learn the
judge was the winner's uncle. How is that fair!? Can he really be expected
to choose a winner fairly when his own family member
is one of the contestants? He's probably biased! Maybe his niece deserved
to win and maybe not. But the point is:
it's very easy to make a case for bias
in that scenario. This is a super-simple example, but the truth is, we run into bias all the time
in everyday life. Our brains are
biologically designed to streamline thinking and
make quick judgments. Bias has evolved to
become a preference in favor of or against a person, group of people, or thing. It can be conscious
or subconscious. The good news is once we know and accept that we have bias, we can start to recognize
our own patterns of thinking and learn
how to manage it. It's important to know
that bias can also find its way into
the world of data. Data bias is a type of error that systematically skews results
in a certain direction. Maybe the questions
on a survey had a particular slant to
influence answers, or maybe the sample
group wasn't truly representative of the
population being studied. For example, if you're going
to take the median age of the US patient population
with health insurance, you wouldn't just use a sample of Medicare patients who
are 65 and older. Bias can also happen if a
sample group lacks inclusivity. For example, people with disabilities tend to
be under-identified, under-represented, or excluded in mainstream
health research. The way you collect data
can also bias a data set. For example, if you give people only a short time to
answer questions, their responses will be rushed. When we're rushed, we
make more mistakes, which can affect the quality of our data and create
biased outcomes. As a data analyst, you have to think about bias and fairness from the moment
you start collecting data to the time you present
your conclusions. After all, those conclusions can have serious implications. Think about this: it's been acknowledged that
clinical studies of heart health tend to include
a lot more men than women. This has led to women failing
to recognize symptoms and ultimately having
their heart conditions go undetected and untreated. That's just one way bias can
have a very real impact. While we've come a long
way in recognizing bias, it still led to
you losing out to the judge's niece at that
science competition. It's still influencing
business decisions, health care choices and access, governmental action, and more. So we've still got work to do. Coming up, we'll show you how to identify bias in the data itself, and explore some
scenarios when you may actually benefit from it.