You're back. Okay, now that our data's organized
and easy to find, it's time to start thinking
about how to protect it. The good news is that
spreadsheets come with security features
already built in. In this video, we'll look at different spreadsheet
programs and how their security features, like sheet protections and
access control, are similar. When I say "security features," you might be imagining ways to protect data from other people. But that's just one kind of security. Security features can
be designed to keep unauthorized users from
viewing certain files, or just lock your
worksheets so that you don't accidentally
break your formulas. This is called data security. Data security means
protecting data from unauthorized
access or corruption by adopting safety measures. Whatever spreadsheet
program you're using will have similar security
measures built in. As a data analyst, you'll run into Google
Sheets and Excel a lot. Let's talk about what
they have in common. First, both programs
have features that let you protect your
spreadsheets or parts of your spreadsheets
from being edited, from the entire worksheet down
to single cells in a table. If you're collaborating
with other users, you can easily lock down your formulas so that they
aren't accidentally broken. Speaking of collaborating, Excel and Google Sheets both have access control features like password protection
and user permissions. This gives you more control over who can do what
to your spreadsheet. Because these programs are
located in different places, these features are
slightly different. For Excel spreadsheets,
you can encrypt files and worksheets
with passwords before emailing them to other
users. In Google Sheets, these settings are found
under the sharing menu, which allows you
to control who can see or edit the sheet online. Google Sheets can also
be copied so that users can work with that data
without altering the original. Tabs can also be hidden and
unhidden in Sheets and Excel, allowing you to change
what data is being viewed. But remember, even hidden tabs can be unhidden by someone else, so be sure you're okay with those tabs still being accessible. As a data analyst, data
security will be a priority. But no matter which program you
use to create spreadsheets, there's security
features to help you keep your work safe and secure. There are some other basic
best practices you can take to keep your data
more secure overall, which we'll cover
later in a reading. You've made it to the end
of this module. Congrats. In these videos, we've
covered strategies for organizing data for
personal and work use, how to develop functional
file naming conventions, and some security
measures you can take advantage of
in spreadsheets. Before you move
on to the next step in the data analysis lifecycle. It's important that you
make sure your data is prepared, and that includes
organizing and securing it. As usual after this video, you'll have your
weekly challenge. I know you've got this. Then after the weekly challenge, there's some optional
material all about connecting to the
online data community. As you start building your
career in data analytics, it'll be really valuable
to connect with others, learn about new trends in the field and share
your own work. I think you'll get a lot
out of those videos. That'll help you develop a
professional online presence and find ways to communicate
with people in your field, which is key as
networking becomes more and more online and remote work opportunities
become the norm. But if you feel pretty confident about your online presence, you can move into the
course challenge instead. Good luck on this
weekly challenge, and I'll see you soon!