Hi there and welcome to this guided project about using
formulas and Google Sheets.
My name is Harrison Kong.
I'm a data analyst who's been working in the industry
for the past 20 years using Google Sheets.
It's a part of my work each day and for the past 10 years
I've been lucky enough to teach learners around the world
about how to use Google sheets to help with tasks both
at work and with their personal lives.
So I can't wait to guide you through this project today.
Before we begin, let me introduce you to this new interface.
The screen is divided into two sides.
On one side is your virtual desktop where you will follow
along and on the other side is the instructional video
that will guide you through this project.
Your virtual desktop will be shown when you need to interact
with it.
If you would like to use it at any other time, drag the bar
on the left side of the instructors video to expand
the virtual machine, feel free to pause this video to get
familiar with the layout.
In this guided project, we are going to practice using
formulas in Google Sheets, but we're not just going to go
through a random set of steps.
We are going to learn about using formula through solving
a problem.
That's right.
We are going to use formulas to develop a spending budget
for a client, David. As a business intelligence professional,
you often use data analytic skills to review a company's
financial. Today,
we will review a client's financials to help them create
a spending budget.
Our goal will be to develop a spending budget to help David
make informed decisions about his spending.
David has collected the necessary data to create a budget.
We will use this data to make informed decisions about his
spending.
David wants to make sure he's spending his money responsibly.
He feels like he might be overspending, but he's not sure.
Your role for this project is to help him develop a spending
budget to help him identify where exactly his money
is being spent and how much money he should set aside
for each spending category in the future.
David has provided us data about several categories
of expenses, including rent, utilities, from internet, food
and entertainment.
He has been collecting this data for the last four months.
Let's use this data to figure out three things where is
the total amount David spends each month?
How much does he spend on average in each category?
And what percentage of his total spending is spent in each
of these categories.
This will help him make data driven decisions about how much
to set aside for different expenses each month.
By the end of this guided project, we will create a budget
sheet. Like the file here.
The spreadsheets clarified the total amount David spends
each month, How much he spends in each category for each
of those months and how much he spends on average on each
of those categories. In this task,
we're going to begin by logging into your google account
to access the spreadsheet.
We're going to work in.
I say we because you are going to follow along and work
on your virtual desktop to follow along with this guided
project. Log into your google account by inputting your
login information into a secure virtual workspace.
You might have to verify your identity in order to log
into your account. After logging in.
Some users may receive an email of a suspicious login
but that's because the virtual workspace is far from your
physical location.
Note that while taking this guided project only you
will have access to this workspace.
If you're inactive for 15 minutes, you'll be logged out
and will have to enter your login information again to access
your virtual workspace.
After you complete this project.
The workspace is completely disposed of and we do not save
any of your personal information so go ahead and pause
this instructional video and log in. Play the video again
when you're done.
Once you've done that, click the button to make a copy.
Nice work.
Right. Let's summarize what we did in this first task.
The goal was to log into your google account to access
David's budget spreadsheet in the process.
You learn that Google Sheet is a spreadsheet application
that can be used for importing, manipulating analyzing
and visualizing data among other purposes.
You also learned that Google Sheets can be used to construct
more tangible artifacts such as a personal spending budget
By the end of this task, we access David's budget spreadsheet
now that we have the necessary data and Google Sheet.
To help David complete his budget.
In the next task, we will write and edit our first formula.
Let's go to the next task.