Welcome back. In this task, we're going to start helping our
client David develop a spending budget.
In the first task you were introduced to this guided projects
scenario of helping David create a spending budget.
Our goal is to help him decide how much money he should set
aside for each spending category in the future.
In this next task, we are going to start by using a formula
to figure out how much David spent in January to determine
the total amount spent each month.
We will add the values vertically in each month
column.
In other words we will add up values separately in column B,
column C, column D,
and column E. Let's get started. First,
we'll find an area to place those column totals.
We will use row 8.
So let's enter the text Total within cell A8. To do this,
select cell A8 type total then press enter. To determine the total
for all the values within column B.
We will write a formula within cell B8.
Select Cell B8.
A formula is a set of instructions used to perform
a calculation using the data in a spreadsheet.
The calculations include addition, subtraction,
multiplication, and division.
We want to know the total for adding up all the values
within the range of cell B2 to B7.
So we need to write a formula that adds the value
of these cells together.
Let's begin constructing this formula.
We do this by typing an equal sign.
B2
plus B3 plus B4 plus B5 plus B6 plus B7
and press the enter key.
You have just written your first formula.
Now we have the total among David spent in January
across all categories.
Great, you have now completed the second task.
Let's summarize what we did in this last task.
Our goal for this task was to use a formula to determine
the total amount David spends in the month of january.
During this task you learned that a formula is a set
of instructions used to perform a calculation.
Using the data in a spreadsheet.
You also learned that to use a formula, first determined
the cell.
You want to place the result value in.
Then begin your formula by typing an equal sign.
By the end of this task we wrote and edited a formula
to determine the total amount David spent in january.
This is a great use of a formula when there's only a few
months of data.
But what if we had two years worth of data, it would be very
time consuming and error prone to type everything out.
Let's proceed to the next task to discover how to use
an efficient feature within Google Sheets.
To save us valuable time when creating formulas. Let's move
on to the next task.