Welcome back in this task, we're going to continue helping
our client David develop a spending budget.
In the last task we found David total spending for the month
of January.
Now let's continue creating formulas for February, March,
and April.
We could use the same approach as we did for cell B8t,
manually typing the formula, but that's time intensive
and prone to errors.
So instead we're going to use a special feature called AutoFill
AutoFill is a function in spreadsheet programs
that pre-fills a field automatically.
A function is a preset command that automatically performs
a specific process or task using the data in the spreadsheet.
Now let's use the AutoFill feature to assist us
in calculating the totals for the remaining months
because we want to copy the same formula in cell B8.
Select cell B8.
Notice the cell is highlighted.
Next hover over the small blue box located on the bottom
right corner of the highlighted cell, until your cursor
converts to a cross hair, select the blue box and drag
over the cell E8, then release it.
You just use the auto filled feature to automatically apply
the formula that adds up the values in the column to the
remaining three columns of the spreadsheet.
That's great.
But here's a pro tip to keep in mind.
It is a best practice to check to confirm the formulas
are working as you intend.
Here's an example, Let's select cell E8.
The range of cells within the formula in this case cells E2
through E7 has automatically been copied using auto
fill. That's exactly what we wanted to happen.
We wanted to sell E8 to add up the values for that range.
The adjustment of the formula is based on relative
referencing. By default,
a cell reference is a relative reference which means
that the reference is relative to the location of the cell.
So within a relative reference changes its formula when
copied elsewhere.
Okay now back to our scenario.
David also wants to know the total money he spent
in each category after all four months.
This will make it easier for him to identify where he's
spending the most money overall by category.
Let's go to column F.
If you would like to create the formulas within column F
by yourself.
You can pause the video at this point.
If not follow along with me and we'll find the totals
for row 2 through 7 together.
Let's start by creating an appropriate column header
for column F.
Select cell F1
Type total.
Now click on Cell F2.
Well, first determined the total cost for rent from January
through april or to put it in spreadsheet terms
from the range B2 to E2 type equals B2 plus C2
plus D2
plus E2
press enter.
Let's close this for now.
Great. You have just written a formula that totals the range
B2 through E2 looks like David spent $5600 in total for rent
in those four months.
Next let's use the AutoFill feature to add up the category
total for the other rows.
Select cell F2. Using the handle, drag down to cell F8.
Then release the selection. The cells populate with the same
formula created within cell F2. Notice that we also total
row 8 total within cell F8.
We will use this result
later in this guided project, you have successfully applied
the auto fill feature to the spreadsheet.
Now let's summarize what we did in this last task.
Your goal for this task was to use AutoFill to determine
the total amont David spent each month from February
through April.
In the process of accomplishing this goal, you learn
that AutoFill is a function in spreadsheet programs
that pre-fills a field automatically.
You also learned that to use the auto field function hover
over the small blue box located in the bottom right hand
corner of a selected cell, select the blue box and drag it
over to other cells.
Finally, when using AutoFill, it is a best practice
to check to confirm that the formulas are working
as you intend. By the end of this task, we successfully
applied the AutoFill feature to determine the total amount
David spend each month from February through April.
This helps David van is total spending per month
and for each category.
Now will help David final, his average spending per category.
This is going to give him a better sense of his spending
habits.
Let's move on to the next task to calculate some averages
within the spreadsheet.