Welcome back in this task, we're going to continue helping
our client David develop a spending budget.
In the last task we covered how to use the AutoFill feature
to automatically apply formulas to different cells.
In this task, we are going to write a formula to determine
the average of a range of cells.
David ultimately wants to know how much money he should set
aside each month for each of his spending categories.
We can help him find that out if we calculate the average
amount of money he spends in each category.
That way he gets a good idea of how much to budget or set
aside for each category moving forward, we have totals
for each month and for each category.
So let's determine the averages for the past four months.
We will start by selecting cell G1 to type our column header,
we will type Average within cell G1.
and press enter now that we have our column header.
It is time to construct our formulas to calculate
some averages because we want to know the averages of rent
for the range B2 through E2.
We will be using a simple algebraic expression within our
formula.
An average is the sum of a set of numbers divided by how many
numbers there are in the list.
In this case there are four months.
So to find the average we will add up the rent values for all
four months and divide by the number of values
for let's write that out as a formula.
Select cell G2, type equals Open parenthesis B2 plus C2.
plus.
D2 plus E2.
close parenthesis forward slash 4.
Notice that we use parentheses within our formula.
That's because there is a proper order of operations.
Whatever is within the parentheses is carried out.
first, numbers in the range B two through E two are first added
together, Then the result is divided by 4 which is
outside the parenthesis.
Now press enter.
Let's close this for now.
Nice work.
You just calculated the average amount of money David spent
on rent in the last four months, continue averaging the other
categories in the range B three through E three.
If you would like to proceed by yourself you can pause
the video at this point and complete the remaining formulas
in the range G3 to G8.
If not let's move along together. To save us time, we will use
the AutoFill feature instead of manually writing out
the formula To do this.
Select cell G2 drag down the handle to to cell G8 and release
the selection.
We just populated all the cells with the same formula created
within cell G2. As you know, with AutoFill,
It is a best practice to double check the calculated values
to make sure the results are correct.
Nice work.
Now let's summarize what we did in the last task.
Our goal was to write a formula to determine the average
amount David spent in each category from January to April.
During this task, you learn that an average is the sum of a
set of numbers divided by how many numbers there are
in the set.
For example, to find the average of four values, add the
four values and divide by the number of values four. By the end
of this task,
we were able to use a formula and the AutoFill function
to determine the average amount David spent in each category
from January through April, David can now use the averages
of these categories to estimate future expenses for example,
instead of guessing how much he spends on food per month, he
now has a more realistic number based on the average monthly
cost of food.
This data enables David to make data driven decisions
about his budgeting for all categories overall.
David now knows how much to set aside to cover his main
expenses, but there was another value
he wanted to know, percentages.
Specifically, he asked about the percent of his total
spending in each category. To find that out,
let's continue on to the final task of this project.