Welcome back. In this task, we're going to finish helping our
client David develop a spending budget.
In the last task we covered how to calculate averages.
Using a formula in this task, we are going to answer David's
final question.
What percentage of his total spending is used
in each category.
This information can help him decide if he should adjust his
spending patterns.
For example, if more than 40% of his spending is used
on entertainment, he might consider adjusting his spending
in that category.
Let's help David answer this question.
To do that.
We will need to explore absolute references using the AutoFill
function.
In previous task we found that references change when
formulas are copied into other cells.
This was called relative referencing.
But what if we want a reference to remain constant when
it is copied? With absolute referencing, references remained
constant no matter where they are copied.
Let me show you what I mean.
To answer the question of what percentage of David total
spending is used for each category.
We will start by examining column F.
The total amount of money spent on each category over the
four month period.
We will need a formula to determine the category percentage
of the overall total.
The overall total Is the amount of money David spent on all
expenses.
And it can be found in cell F8.
Let's use column H
for our percentages. Create a column header, select cell H1
and type percent of total spending then press center. And create a custom
formula.
To determine what percent of David total spending was spent
on rent.
With cell H2 still selected type
the following formula equals F2
forward slash F8 and press enter. It looks
like 65% of David's spending is going towards his rent.
Now let us find out the percentage of its total spending
for each of the remaining categories.
Let's use the AutoFill feature with H2
selected, drag the handle To cell H7 and release
the selection.
Let's close this dialog box for now.
We have an error.
That's okay.
Troubleshooting is a big part of being a data analytics
professional.
So let's figure out what we can do to resolve the error.
Division by zero.
We know that division by zero occurred when a formula
is trying to divide a value in a cell by zero or an empty
cell. If we select cell H3 we find that cell F8 is
no longer in the formula.
But we need cell F8 to stay in the formula
because each category total has to be divided by the value
in cell F8.
This is an example of why it's important to review AutoFill
results, turns out the AutoFill feature worked as intended.
It adjusted which cells were reference just
like before but we don't want cell F8
to adjust so we will need to fix the cell location
or reference within the formula.
Instead of using relative referencing for cell F8.
We will use absolute referencing an absolute reference is
a reference within a function that is locked so that rows
and columns won't change if the function is copied, absolute
references are used when you want to fix a cell location
within a formula.
As you're learning these cells references are preceded
by dollar signs.
Let's start over and fix the formula in cell H2.
Don't worry about the errors that are currently in range
from cell H3
to H7
We will adjust those later. Select cell H2
In the formula bar, insert a dollar sign before the F
and before the 8 press enter.
The correct result is shown within H2
Now let's use AutoFill again.
We corrected the referencing issue and now each of the cells
in our percent of total spending column is taking the value
from column F
and dividing it by the specific value and cell F8.
Great work.
Now let's summarize what we did in this last task.
Our goal for this task was to determine the percentage of
David's total spending used in each category.
During this task you learned that with absolute referencing,
the cells referenced by a formula remained constant no matter
where they copy.
He also learned that absolute references are used when you
want to fix a cell location within the formula.
Finally to fix a cell location and the formula at a dollar
sign before the row and column of a cell's name.
By the end of this task, we were able to use absolute
referencing to calculate how much David spends in each
category as the percentage of his overall spending.
Congratulations.
You have completed all the tasks in this guided project.
You helped David by writing formulas using auto fill and
applying absolute references.
David now has more data to make informed decisions about his
budget and spending.
You can now understand how creating a budget and spending
plan for your business or personal use can help identify and
predict spending.
This is the end of the guided project.
You can return to your course by clicking the leave session
button.
Best of luck with the rest of your course. Bye now.