As a data analyst, you'll be tackling
business tasks that help companies use data. Coming up, we'll talk more about what a
business task actually is, and some examples of
what they might look like in real data analyst jobs. Let's take a second and think back on the real examples of businesses using data analytics and their operation
we've seen before. You might have noticed
a common theme across every example. They all have issues to explore, questions to answer,
or problems to solve. It's easy for these
things to get mixed up. Here's a way to keep
them straight when we talk about them in
data analytics. An issue is a topic or
subject to investigate. A question is designed to
discover information and a problem is an obstacle or complication that needs
to be worked out. Coca-Cola had a question
about new products. Data analysis gave them insights into new flavors
customers already like. The City Zoo and Aquarium
had a problem with staffing. Data, helped them figure out
the best staffing strategy. These questions and
problems become the foundation for all
kinds of business tasks, that you'll help solve
as a data analyst. A business task is
the question or problem data analysis
answers for business. This is where you focus a lot of your efforts in the work you'll
do for future employers. Let's stick with our zoo
example and see if we can imagine what a business task
for a zoo might look like. We know the problem, unpredictable weather
was making it hard for the zoo to
anticipate staffing needs. Maybe the business task
could be something like, analyze weather data from the last decade to identify
predictable patterns. The data analysts could then plan out the best way to gather, analyze, and present
the data needed to solve this task and
meet the zoos goals. Then, using data, the zoo
would be able to make informed decisions about
their daily staffing. We talked a little
about data-driven decision making in
previous videos. But just in case you need
a refresher, here it is. Data-driven decision-making
is when facts that have been discovered through data analysis are used to guide
business strategy. The simplest way to think
about decision-making is that it's a choice
between consequences, good, bad, or a
combination of both. In our zoo example, the zoo had the data
they needed to make an informed decision that
solved their problem. But what if they had made
this decision without data? Let's say they just
relied on observation and memory to track the weather and make
staffing schedules. Well, we already know that wouldn't have solve
their problem long-term. Data analytics gave them
the information they needed to find the best possible
solution to their problem. That's the power of data. Observation and intuition are powerful tools in
decision-making, but they can only take
us so far when we make decisions based on just
observation and gut feelings, we're only seeing
part of the picture. Data helps us see
the whole thing. With data, we have a complete picture of the
problem and its causes, which lets us find new and surprising solutions we never would've been
able to see before. Data analytics helps businesses
make better decisions. It all starts with a business task and the
question it's trying to answer. With the skills you'll learn
throughout this program, you'll be able to ask
the right questions, plan out the best way to
gather and analyze data, and then present it visually
to arm your team so they can make an informed,
data-driven decision. That makes you critical to the success of any
business you work for. Data is a powerful tool. With great power comes, well, you know the rest.
And you're doing a super job taking in
all of this information. Up next, we'll talk about
your responsibility as a data analyst to make
sure you're gathering, analyzing, and presenting
data in a way that's fair to the people being
represented by that data.