Hi, my name is Rachel, and I'm the Business systems and analytics lead at Verily. There are a lot of
different types of problems that a data
analyst can solve. I've been lucky
enough over my career to have seen a lot of them and to take in a lot of
very different types of data and help turn that
into meaningful answers. I think one of the most important things
to remember about data analytics is
that data is data. I'm a finance data analyst and so my role at Verily is to take all of our financial information, all of the information of the money we're spending
and the money we're making, and turn that into
reports and insights so that our business leads can understand what we're doing. One of the most important
things I've done at Verily recently was help create what's called
a profit and loss statement for each of
our business units. That means that in real time, our teams can see
what their budget is and how they're spending
against that budget. What that does is that
helps our teams keep to that budget by either increasing their revenue streams
so that they have more money to play
with or pulling back their spending so that they can keep themselves
within that budget. All of that really
helps keep us on track as a company in making sure that we're
hitting our goals. I found that data acts like a
living and breathing thing. When you have a ton
of data points, it can be overwhelming when you first sit down
to make sense of it. You have tons of columns, tons of records, tons of
different types of data, and finding a way to make
sense of that is really hard and that's where the expertise of a
data analyst comes in. It has been some of the most frustrating moments of my career, but also some of the
most rewarding work I've ever done when it
finally comes together. The best advice I have for any data analyst starting
out is keep at it. If the angle you're
taking doesn't work, try to find another one. Try to come at it
in a different way, try to ask a different question, and eventually the data will yield and you'll get the
insights you're looking for.