Hi, I'm Alex. I'm a research
scientist at Google. My team is called
the ethical AI team, we're a group of folks that
really are concerned not only about how AI the
technology operates, but how it interacts
with society and how it might help or harm
marginalized communities. When we talk about data ethics, we think about what is the good and right
way of using data? What are going to be ways that uses of data are going to
be beneficial to people? When it comes to data ethics, it's not just about
minimizing harm but it's actually this concept
of beneficence. How do we actually
improve the lives of people by using data? When we think about data
ethics we're thinking about, who's collecting the data? Why are they collecting it? How are they collecting
it and for what purpose? Because of the way that organizations have
imperatives to make money or to report to somebody
or provide some analysis, we also have to keep
strongly in mind how this is actually going to benefit people at
the end of the day. Are the people represented in this data going to be
benefited by this? I think that's the
thing you never want to lose sight of as a data
scientist or a data analyst. I think aspiring data
analysts need to keep in mind that a lot of the data that you're going to encounter is
data that comes from people so at the end of the
day, data are people. You want to have a responsibility to those people that are
represented in those data. Second, is thinking
about how to keep aspects of their data
protected and private. We don't want to go through
our practice thinking about data instances as something we can just
throw on the web. No, there needs to be
considerations about how to keep that information, and likenesses like their images, or their voices, or their text. How do we keep that private? We also need to think
about how we can have mechanisms of giving users and giving consumers more
control over their data. It's not going to be
sufficient just to say, we collect all this data and trust us with all these data. But we need to
ensure that there's actionable ways in which people can consent to
giving those data, and ways that they can ask for it to be
revoked or removed. Data's growing and
at the same time, we need to empower people to have control over their own data. The future is that data
is always growing, we haven't seen any evidence that data is actually shrinking. With the knowledge
that data's growing, these issues become
more and more piqued, and more and more
important to think about.