By now, we know that
there are all kinds of jobs in different industries
available for data analysts. But now it's time to think about something
just as important, how can you tell if a
job is a good fit for you and your career
goals? Tough one. Don't worry, that's exactly what we'll cover in this video. There's a lot of
important factors to think about when searching
for your dream job. Let's talk about some of the
most common factors first, industry, tools, location,
travel, and culture. Data is already being used by countless industries in all
kinds of different ways, tech, marketing,
finance, health care, the list goes on. But one thing that's
important to keep in mind, every industry has
specific data needs that have to be addressed differently by their
data analysts. The same revenue
data can be used in three different ways by data analysts in three
different industries, financial services,
Telecom, and tech. For example, a finance analyst at a bank post public
revenue data of Telecom company X to
create a forecast that predicts where
revenues will be in the future to recommend
the stock price. The business analyst
at Telecom company X uses that same data to
advise the sales team. Then a data analyst
at the company who created a customer
management tool for Telecom company X will use that revenue data to determine how efficiently the
software is performing. Finance, telecom, and tech, all use data differently, so they need analysts who
have different skills. It all comes down to what the
needs of the industry are. Those needs will determine
what task you'll be given, the questions you'll
be answering and even how you'll
approach job searching. If you're just starting out, a great way to guide
your search is to think first about what
you're interested in. Does helping people get healthier sound
meaningful to you? Maybe you want to focus on using data to improve
hospital admissions. What about helping people
save for a happy retirement? You might want a job
that uses data to determine risk factors in
financial investments. Or maybe you're
interested in helping journalism grow in your city. A job using data to help find your local news website find more subscribers could be
the perfect role for you. The key is to think about your interests early
in your job search. That'll lead you in
the right direction, and it will help you
in interviews too. Potential employers
will want to know why you're interested
in their company, and how you can
address their needs, so if you can speak about your motivation to work in data analytics during interviews, you'll make yourself
stand out in a great way. You'll have options
when it comes to where you work and
who you work for. But remember, you want
to enjoy what you do, so it's a good idea to think about how you want
to use your skills. Then search for jobs that
allow you to do that. Next on the list
of things to think about, location and travel. When you start your job search, you need to make some decisions about where you want to live, so it helps to ask
yourself some questions, does your preferred industry have opportunities in your area? Are you trying to stay local or would you be happy relocating? How long are you willing to
commute to work every day? Will you drive to work, walk, take public transport? Is that possible year-round? How do you feel about
working remotely? Does working from home
excite you or bore you? Of course, you'll want to
consider cost of living, and whether or not you want the convenience of city living
or a quiet suburban home, and it's not just about
where you'll be based, some jobs may ask you to travel, which could be an
exciting chance to see the world or a deal-breaker. It's all about what you
want out of this job, so start asking yourself
some of these questions. Figuring out the
answers can help you narrow down your
search even further, so you're only looking at
jobs you'd actually accept. Once you've answered
enough questions, you'll be able to identify some specific companies
that fit your needs. At this point, it's a
good time to think about your values and what company culture is
a good fit for you. Ready, here comes
some more questions, do you work best in a
team or by yourself? Do you like to have a
set routine or do you enjoy taking a new project
and trying new things? Do your values match
the company's values? You'll want to pay attention
to these things during your job search and
interview process, so you can be sure you fully invested in the
company you work for. That's the best way
to start building an exciting and
fulfilling career. This program will help you learn the core skills for data
analytics in any setting, it's up to you where
you want to take them, whether that means starting
in a completely new industry, or moving into an
analyst position in an industry you already
have experience in. Hopefully what we've
covered here has helped you get on track for
your future job search. After this, you have a
few activities to do, and then you'll be
able to move on to the next part of this course. We learned a lot so far, like what opportunities
are out there for data analysts in
different industries. How data analysts help businesses
make better decisions. The importance of fairness
and data analytics, and the potential
questions you can start asking yourself before
your future job search, and you can always look back at these lessons if
you want to review. In an upcoming course, we'll look at the skills all
successful data analysts have and you'll learn how you can start
practicing them too. But before that, you'll
have an assessment. Good luck, and I'll
see you later.