My name is Samah Moid,
and I'm a recruiter here at Google for the
large customer sales team. Basically, I hire talent
for the sales team here. Even within the sales
recruiting space, I recruit specifically for the analytical lead
roles here at Google. I want the candidate to be
as comfortable as possible. As a recruiter I'm
also their advocate. If they're a good
fit for the team, I'd like to present
them in the best light. As a recruiter some
advice I would give for a data analyst that's
starting to look for a job. Think about a time where you've used data to solve a problem, whether it's in your professional
or personal projects. Another tip, I would say for a data analyst that's looking for a new job is to increase
your professional network. There are many ways to increase your professional network. One of them is to increase
your online footprint, reach out to other
analysts on LinkedIn, join local meet-ups with
other data scientists. Sometimes when we're looking
for a unique skill set, recruiters are going on
websites like LinkedIn, and GitHub, and trying to
find that talent themselves. It's really important
to have your LinkedIn updated along with
websites like GitHub, where you can showcase a lot of the data analysts
projects you've done. Another tip I would say for an in-person interview is to prepare questions
for the interviewer. Make sure they're
not broad questions. They should be questions that
will help you understand the team and the job better. If you're given a case
study in an interview, you should expect to be given a business problem along
with the sample data set. Then you'd be asked to
take that sample data set, analyze it, and come
up with a solution. One of the things you can do
to help prepare yourself for this is to ensure you are analyzing the data and coming up with a solution that relates back to that data. Sometimes there is
no right answer, and a lot of times interviewers
are looking to see your thought process and the way you get to your solution. I highly encourage that if you find a role that
you're interested in, not only apply to it,
but go the next step. Look for the recruiter. Look for the hiring manager online. See if you can reach
out to them and set up a coffee chat or send them
your resume directly. Online applications could be a really big black hole where you never hear back from
the recruiter or the team. When you reach out directly to a hiring manager or recruiter, it really shows your eagerness for the role and your
interests for the role. Even if sometimes you don't get a response from reaching out, you never know, you try
multiple different times. That one time you get a response back from a recruiter
or hiring manager, could be the time you get the
job that you really wanted.