Picture this: You're working on a project. You've asked all the right questions,
applied structured thinking, and you're completely in sync
with your stakeholders. You're off to a great start. But there's another step in the process:
preparing the data correctly. This is where understanding
the different types of data and data structures comes in. Knowing this lets you figure out
what type of data is right for the question you're answering. Plus, you'll gain practical
skills about how to extract, use, organize, and protect your data. Hey, my name is Hallie, and
I'm an analytical lead at Google. I work with companies in
the healthcare industry. I'm so
excited to welcome you to this course. You've been building up your data analyst
skills in lots of different ways so far. You've learned how to ask the right
questions, define the problem, and present your analysis in a way that matches up
with the needs of your stakeholders. In other words, you've learned
how to tell a story using data. Now we'll learn more about the data
that you'll need to tell the best story possible. But before we do that,
I'd love to tell you my story. I use analytics to help healthcare
companies develop digital marketing solutions that make their business and
their brands stronger. My team and I find business and media opportunities based on
the latest industry and data insights. I've been working in healthcare for
about five years, and it's great. I really enjoy being able to use
data to help spark change in such an important industry. As you'll discover in this course, data can be the main character
in a very powerful story. I absolutely love using analysis to tell
that story in a way that's compelling and informative. Here's a real life example of how
I've used data to tell a story. In my job, we analyze Medicare
enrollment data over time and make connections to how people
research Medicare plans on Google. As people 65 and older become more
informed decision makers for their health, I use the data to learn if there's
an increase in Medicare enrollments and what part Google searches play
if there is an increase in demand. Now it's very important that I make
sure the data is relevant and valid. I also have to pay attention
to questions around access and equity while maintaining the privacy
of those conducting searches. The happy ending of my story is that
the data in my findings is useful to medical professionals and their patients. There's so much useful data out there, and
you're building the skills you'll need to find and
use the right data in the best way. In this course,
you'll continue sharpening those skills. So you've already heard a lot about
the data analysis process steps: Ask, Prepare, Process,
Analyze, Share and Act. Now it's time to learn
how to prepare the data. You'll learn to identify how data
is generated and collected, and you'll explore different formats,
types and structures of data. We'll make sure you know how to choose and
use data that'll help you understand and respond to a business problem. And because not all data fits each need,
you'll learn how to analyze data for bias and credibility. We'll also explore what clean data means. But wait, there's more. You'll also get up close and
personal with databases. We'll cover what they are and
how analysts use them. You'll even get to extract your
own data from a database using a couple of tools that you're already
familiar with: spreadsheets and SQL. The key here is patience. Like anything worth doing,
this will take time and practice. And I'll be with you
every step of the way. Still with me? Great. The last few things we'll cover
are the basics of data organization and the process of protecting your data. Data works best when it's organized. And if you're organizing your data,
you'll want to protect it too. I'll show you how to do both and
apply it to your own analysis. I'm so excited to help you write
your own personal story as you continue exploring the world
of data analytics. So let's do it.