Healthcare is just a really
fascinating place in the US. It's a really incredible
industry to work in because it is so
historically traditional, and healthcare companies,
unlike other tech companies, just really have not used
data to inform decisions. When I was in college, I had a professor who didn't want us to have
textbooks because he just said the healthcare
industry was changing so rapidly, and it wouldn't make
sense to have a textbook, which is just a
static piece of text when things were just
really evolving. So I would say healthcare
and data and the two together is a newer
concept using big data, using machine learning, and artificial intelligence to help the healthcare
industries. I started analyzing large
sums of patient data. That was the first
time I had really worked with such huge datasets, and I found it really
fascinating that we can take all of
these datasets and synthesize them and
allow us to really deliver some cool insights and trends to our
hospital systems. That was the first time I started thinking about data analysis, data analytics, as a
possible career for me. That's really what brought me to this analytical lead role at
Google where I could take that knowledge and
that skill set of analyzing datasets and do
that on a daily basis, so that really, every
conversation I was having with the client was a
data-informed conversation. I work within the
healthcare vertical. We have companies who market on our platforms, like Google
Search and YouTube. We help them understand the healthcare industry
so that they can better market to the audience that they're trying to reach. Whether you're a
healthcare insurer or you're a health care provider, maybe a hospital system, they all have different needs
on how they want to reach their audience using
Google's platforms. We help them optimize
their marketing spend, but we also do a lot of research in the
healthcare industry. Some user research, some understanding of how
users are really just searching on Google
to give them a sense of what's really happening in the industry and how they
can market effectively. I would say that my technical skills with data
analytics came with time. The most important skill I found, which has also come with
time and grown with me, is just the creativity
side of data analysis. I mean, you can really learn a lot of the SQL skills and R, and I know some of that
is within the course. But really, the
creativity side is something that just
comes with experience. When you're looking at a dataset, you might look at it one way
and analyze it one way and then have someone else look at it or look at it a week later, and then all of a
sudden the trend that you're seeing is
completely different. You have to take a
lot of these pieces of information, these nuggets, I like to call them,
and just piece together a really nice
narrative using data. That skill set is something I learned when I was
working in consulting, and I've taken that to Google and really been able to polish a lot of those skills and some of the more
technical skills. Technical and the creative side are what I've grown to love. My name is Hallie. I'm
an analytical lead at Google working specifically
in the healthcare vertical.