We've talked a lot
about what data is and how it plays
into decision-making. What do we know already? Well, we know that data
is a collection of facts. We also know that
data analysis reveals important patterns and
insights about that data. Finally, we know
that data analysis can help us make more
informed decisions. Now, we'll look at
how data plays into the decision-making
process and take a quick look at the
differences between data-driven and
data-inspired decisions. Let's look at a
real-life example. Think about the last time you searched "restaurants
near me" and sorted the results by rating to help you decide which
one looks best. That was a decision
you made using data. Businesses and other
organizations use data to make better
decisions all the time. There's two ways
they can do this, with data-driven or
data-inspired decision-making. We'll talk more about data-inspired
decision-making later on, but here's a quick
definition for now. Data-inspired decision-making explores different data sources to find out what
they have in common. Here at Google, we use
data every single day, in very surprising ways too. For example, we use data
to help cut back on the amount of energy spent
cooling your data centers. After analyzing years of data collected with
artificial intelligence, we were able to make decisions that help reduce the energy we use to cool our data
centers by over 40 percent. Google's People Operations team also uses data to improve how we hire new Googlers and how we get them
started on the right foot. We wanted to make sure we weren't passing over any
talented applicants and that we made their
transition into their new roles as
smooth as possible. After analyzing data on
applications, interviews, and new hire
orientation processes, we started using an algorithm. An algorithm is a
process or set of rules to be followed
for a specific task. With this algorithm, we
reviewed applicants that didn't pass the initial
screening process to find great candidates. Data also helped us determine the ideal number of
interviews that lead to the best possible
hiring decisions. We've created new
onboarding agendas to help new employees get
started at their new jobs. Data is everywhere. Today, we create so much data
that scientists estimate 90 percent of the world's data has been created in just
the last few years. Think of the potential here. The more data we have, the bigger the problems
we can solve and the more powerful our
solutions can be. But responsibly gathering data is only part of the process. We also have to turn data into knowledge that helps us
make better solutions. I'm going to let fellow Googler, Ed, talk more about that. Just having tons of
data isn't enough. We have to do something
meaningful with it. Data in itself
provides little value. To quote Jack Dorsey, the founder of
Twitter and Square, "Every single action
that we do in this world is triggering
off some amount of data, and most of that data is
meaningless until someone adds some interpretation of it or someone adds a
narrative around it." Data is straightforward,
facts collected together, values that describe something. Individual data
points become more useful when they're
collected and structured, but they're still somewhat
meaningless by themselves. We need to interpret data to
turn it into information. Look at Michael Phelps' time in a 200-meter individual
medal swimming race, one minute, 54 seconds. Doesn't tell us much. When we compare it to his competitor's
times in the race, however, we can see
that Michael came in the first place and
won the gold medal. Our analysis took
data, in this case, a list of Michael's races
and times and turned it into information by comparing
it with other data. Context is important. We needed to know that this
race was an Olympic final and not some other random race to determine that this was
a gold medal finish. But this still isn't knowledge. When we consume
information, understand it, and apply it, that's when
data is most useful. In other words, Michael
Phelps is a fast swimmer. It's pretty cool how
we can turn data into knowledge that helps us
in all kinds of ways, whether it's finding the
perfect restaurant or making environmentally
friendly changes. But keep in mind, there are limitations
to data analytics. Sometimes we don't have access to all of
the data we need, or data is measured
differently across programs, which can make it difficult
to find concrete examples. We'll cover these more
in detail later on, but it's important that you start thinking about them now. Now that you know how data
drives decision-making, you know how key your role as a data analyst is
to the business. Data is a powerful tool
for decision-making, and you can help provide
businesses with the information they need to solve problems
and make new decisions, but before that, you will need to learn a little more about the kinds of data you'll be working with and how
to deal with it.