Hi again. When it comes to
decision-making, data is key. But we've also learned that there are a lot of
different kinds of questions that data
might help us answer, and these different questions make different kinds of data. There are two kinds of data
that we'll talk about in this video, quantitative
and qualitative. Quantitative data is all about the specific and objective
measures of numerical facts. This can often be the what, how many, and how
often about a problem. In other words, things
you can measure, like how many commuters take the train to
work every week. As a financial analyst, I work with a lot
of quantitative data. I love the certainty
and accuracy of numbers. On the other hand, qualitative data describes subjective or
explanatory measures of qualities and characteristics or things that can't be measured
with numerical data, like your hair color. Qualitative data is great for helping us answer
why questions. For example, why
people might like a certain celebrity or snack
food more than others. With quantitative data,
we can see numbers visualized as charts or graphs. Qualitative data can then give us a more high-level
understanding of why the numbers are
the way they are. This is important
because it helps us add context to a problem. As a data analyst, you'll be using both quantitative and
qualitative analysis, depending on your business task. Reviews are a great
example of this. Think about a time you
used reviews to decide whether you wanted to buy
something or go somewhere. These reviews might have told you how many people dislike
that thing and why. Businesses read
these reviews too, but they use the data
in different ways. Let's look at an example of
a business using data from customer reviews to see qualitative and quantitative
data in action. Now, say a local ice cream
shop has started using their online reviews
to engage with their customers and
build their brand. These reviews give
the ice cream shop insights into their
customers' experiences, which they can use to inform
their decision-making. The owner notices that their
rating has been going down. He sees that lately his shop has been receiving
more negative reviews. He wants to know why, so he starts asking questions. First are measurable questions. How many negative
reviews are there? What's the average rating? How many of these reviews
use the same keywords? These questions generate
quantitative data, numerical results that help confirm their customers
aren't satisfied. This data might lead them
to ask different questions. Why are customers
unsatisfied? How can we improve
their experience? These are questions that
lead to qualitative data. After looking
through the reviews, the ice cream shop
owner sees a pattern, 17 of negative reviews use the word "frustrated."
That's quantitative data. Now we can start collecting
qualitative data by asking why this word
is being repeated? He finds that customers are frustrated because the shop is running out of popular flavors
before the end of the day. Knowing this, the ice
cream shop can change its weekly order to
make sure it has enough of what the
customers want. With both quantitative
and qualitative data, the ice cream shop owner
was able to figure out his customers were unhappy
and understand why. Having both types of data
made it possible for him to make the right changes
and improve his business. Now that you know the
difference between quantitative and
qualitative data, you know how to get
different types of data by asking
different questions. It's your job as a data
detective to know which questions to ask to
find the right solution. Then you can start thinking about cool and creative ways to help stakeholders better
understand the data. For example,
interactive dashboards, which we'll learn about soon.