Hi again, let me
ask you something. What comes to your mind when you think of the word, ethics? For me, it's a set of
principles to live by. Most people have a
personal code of ethics that helps them
navigate the world. When we're young, it
could be as simple as never lie, cheat or steal, but as we get older, it's a much broader list
of do's and don'ts. Our personal ethics evolve
and become more rational, giving us a moral compass
to use as we face life's questions, challenges,
and opportunities. When we analyze data, we're also faced with
questions, challenges, and opportunities, but
we have to rely on more than just our personal code
of ethics to address them. As we learned earlier, we all have our own
personal biases, not to mention
subconscious biases that make ethics even more
difficult to navigate. That's why we have data ethics, an important aspect of analytics that we'll explore right
here in this video. But first, let's go back to
the general idea of ethics. While an exact definition is still under discussion
in philosophy, one practical view is
that ethics refers to well-founded standards
of right and wrong that prescribe
what humans ought to do, usually in terms of
rights, obligations, benefits to society, fairness
or specific virtues. Just like humans, data has standards to live up to as well. Data ethics refers to well-
founded standards of right and wrong that dictate how data is collected, shared, and used. Since the ability to collect, share and use data in such large quantities
is relatively new, the rules that
regulate and govern the process are still evolving. The importance of
data privacy has been recognized by governments
worldwide and they started creating data
protection legislation to help protect people
and their data. The GDPR of the European Union was created to do just this. While policy makers
continue their work, companies like Google have a responsibility to lead the
effort and will do so in the same spirit we
always have by offering products that make privacy
a reality for everyone. The concept of data ethics
and issues related to transparency and privacy
are part of the process. Data ethics tries to
get to the root of the accountability
companies have in protecting and responsibly
using the data they collect. There are lots of
different aspects of data ethics but we'll
cover six: ownership, transaction transparency, consent, currency,
privacy, and openness. We'll explore data privacy
and openness a bit later. First up is ownership. This answers the
question who owns data? It isn't the organization that invested time and
money collecting, storing, processing,
and analyzing it. It's individuals who own
the raw data they provide, and they have primary
control over its usage, how it's processed
and how it's shared. Next, we have transaction
transparency, which is the idea that all data processing activities
and algorithms should be completely explainable and understood by the individual
who provides their data. This is in response to
concerns over data bias, which we discussed earlier, is a type of error that systematically skews results
in a certain direction. Biased outcomes can lead to
negative consequences. To avoid them, it's
helpful to provide transparent analysis
especially to the people who share their data. This lets people judge whether
the outcome is fair and unbiased and allows them to
raise potential concerns. Now let's talk about
another aspect of data ethics, consent. This is an individual's right to know explicit details about how and why their data will be used before agreeing
to provide it. They should know
answers to questions like why is the data
being collected? How will it be used? How long will it be stored? The best way to give consent
is probably a conversation between the person providing the data and the
person requesting it. But with so much activity
happening online these days, consent usually just
looks like a terms and conditions checkbox with
links to more details. Let's face it, not everyone clicks through to
read those details. Consent is important because it prevents all populations
from being unfairly targeted which is a very big
deal for marginalized groups who are often disproportionately misrepresented by biased data. Next, there's currency. Individuals should be aware of financial
transactions resulting from the use of
their personal data and the scale of
these transactions. If your data is helping to
fund a company's efforts, you should know what
those efforts are all about and be given the
opportunity to opt out. The last two aspects
of data ethics, privacy and openness, deserve their own spotlight
on this data stage. Coming up, you'll see why.