[MUSIC] My name is Andrew. I am a senior developer advocate on
the ethical AI research group at Google. As a senior developer advocate, I try and help the larger community build
socially responsible AI systems. One consequence of not using
this technology responsibly is the possibility of amplifying or
reinforcing unfair biases. Now these algorithms, these data sets, are often being used in settings
where they are deciding the outcome. Whether it's curating content for
an individual or determining whether or not they're eligible for a loan, all these different decision making
processes depend on the algorithms and the data sets that are being
used in that context. And so if this were to be
handled irresponsibly, then the very outcomes of these
systems could potentially harm underrepresented communities,
minority groups. There's a lot that the field,
the industry, the community, is learning about the responsible
use of data and AI. So what I try to do is I try to
correlate all those different elements, whether it's working with various research
groups within Google, working with various product teams at Google,
engaging with the larger community. We have to go above and
beyond and actually educate those that are striving to
build this technology for good but may not necessarily
have the resources or the institutional community wisdom to
actually carry out their good intentions. So the truth of the matter is that
AI, data, and any technology that's built around that, there's a lot
of great benefits to that. It's improving the lives
of many people out there. It's enabling us to do things
we couldn't ordinarily do. It's providing us with affordances
to think about other things in life. This is all the more reason why
it's important that we together, collectively, not just one organization,
but the entire community, and even non-technologists, too,
everyone needs to be involved. That's the role of, that I play here,
is that I try to help AI evolve ethically together, and
to do that is contingent on the democratization of
the responsible use of AI. [MUSIC]