Hi. I'm Cassie, and I lead Decision Intelligence
for Google Cloud. Decision Intelligence
is a combination of applied data science and the social and
managerial sciences. It is all about harnessing
the power and beauty of data. I help Google Cloud
and its customers turn their data into impact and make their businesses
and the world better. A data analyst is an explorer, a detective, and an artist
all rolled into one. Analytics is the quest
for inspiration. You don't know what's going to inspire you before you explore, before you take a look around. When you begin, you
have no idea what you're going to find and whether you're even
going to find anything. You have to bravely dive into the unknown and discover
what lies in your data. There is a pervasive myth that someone who works in data should know the
everything of data. I think that that's
unhelpful because the universe of
data has expanded. It's expanded so much that specialization
becomes important. It's very, very difficult for one person to know and be
the everything of data. That's why we need
these different roles. The advice that I give folks
who are entering the space is to pick their specialization
based on which flavor, which type of impact best
suits their personality. Now, data science, the discipline
of making data useful, is an umbrella term that
encompasses three disciplines: machine learning,
statistics, and analytics. These are separated by how many decisions you know you want to make before
you begin with them. If you want to make a few
important decisions under uncertainty, that is statistics. If you want to automate, in
other words, make many, many, many decisions under uncertainty, that is machine learning and AI. But what if you don't know how many decisions you want
to make before you begin? What if what you're looking
for is inspiration? You want to encounter
your unknown unknowns. You want to understand
your world. That is analytics. When you're considering
data science and you're choosing which
area to specialize in, I recommend going with
your personality. Which of the three excellences in data science feels like
a better fit for you? The excellence of
statistics is rigor. Statisticians are
essentially philosophers, epistemologists. They are very, very careful about protecting decision-makers
from coming to the wrong conclusion. If that care and rigor is what
you are passionate about, I would recommend statistics. Performance is the excellence of the machine learning
and AI engineer. You know that's the one for
you if someone says to you, "I bet that you couldn't build an automation system that
performs this task with 99.99999 percent accuracy," and your response to that
is, "Watch me." How about analytics? The excellence of an
analyst is speed. How quickly can you surf
through vast amounts of data to explore it and
discover the gems, the beautiful potential
insights that are worth knowing about and bringing
to your decision-makers? Are you excited by the
ambiguity of exploration? Are you excited by the idea of working on a lot
of different things, looking at a lot of
different data sources, and thinking through vast
amounts of information, while promising not to snooze past the important
potential insights? Are you okay being told, "Here is a whole lot of data. No one has looked at it before. Go find something interesting"? Do you thrive on creative,
open-ended projects? If that's you, then analytics is probably
the best fit for you. A piece of advice that I have for analysts getting started on this journey is it can be pretty scary to
explore the unknown. But I suggest letting
go a little bit of any temptations towards
perfectionism and instead, enjoying the fun, the
thrill of exploration. Don't worry about right answers. See how quickly you
can unwrap this gift and find out if there is
anything fun in there. It's like your birthday,
unwrapping a bunch of things. Some of them you like.
Some of them you won't. But isn't it fun to know
what's actually in there?