Previously, we learned about
what a data analyst does and why that work is so valuable. Now, let's look at where data
analysts actually do their work. You'll learn much more about the industries
you could work in as a data analyst. And how companies in these fields are
already using data analytics to do some really cool things. There are so many businesses out
there that have a big need for the skills you're learning right now. Across industries like technology,
marketing, finance, health care, and so many more. Real companies are already using data
analytics to stay ahead of the curve. And the more they use data in their
business, the more they understand just how important data analyst
like you are to their success. Let's look at a real life example of
a brand you'll probably recognize, Coca-Cola. Data is changing the way Coca-Cola
approaches its marketing strategies. Coca-Cola uses data gathered from
consumer feedback to create advertising that speaks directly to different
audiences with different interests. How does this work? You know those high tech Coca-Cola
vending machines you see at movie theater sometimes? It's always fun getting
to make your own flavors. Well, those machines have built-in
artificial intelligence and data analysis tools. This helps Coca-Cola see all the different
kinds of flavor combinations people are coming up with, which they can then
use as inspiration for new products. How cool is that? Ever wonder how Google gives you the right
answer to any question in just seconds? That's powered by data too. We use all kinds of data to
determine a website's reliability and accuracy to make sure you get the most
useful results for any search you make. But it isn't just big companies like
Coca-Cola and Google that use data. Small businesses everywhere are also
starting to take advantage of data driven insights to improve their
operations and make better decisions. Small businesses can use data
to do all kinds of things. They might use data analytics to better
understand their customers' buying habits, create more effective
social media messaging, or, in the case of one city zoo and
aquarium, predict the number of daily visitors
based on local climate data. City zoo and aquarium realized that, on rainy days, they were seeing
huge drop offs in attendance, but they had no way to accurately
predict when those rainy days would hit. This made staffing a real challenge. Some days they found
themselves overstaffed, other days they were unprepared for
the rush of visitors. To deal with this, data analyst took
years of weather records from the zoo and use that data to accurately
predict future weather patterns. This made it easy for the zoo to know
how much staff they needed when. Because the zoo could predict and manage
their staffing needs more accurately, they were able to provide a better
experience for visitors and dedicate more resources to creating
a better experience for the animals too. We see a similar thing in
the healthcare industry. Their data analysts look at clinic
attendance data to help hospitals and doctors offices predict when rush hours
will hit so they can be ready for it. Your local city hospital
is a great example. Let's say they've been getting
complaints about long wait times. Sometimes an hour or more,
which made it hard for some patients to get the care they needed. So data analyst use data about the
hospitals daily foot traffic to help them make more informed decisions about how
many doctors they need on staff at any given time. This helped reduce wait times,
improve their patients experience, and make better use of the health
care worker's time too. Like I said, there are many ways that
companies in different industries put data to use, but they can only do that if
they have data analyst they can rely on. So you might be wondering,
how you fit into the equation? Well, you've got plenty of options, but you don't have to decide what industry
you want to work in right away. There will be plenty of time to think about that
as you make your way through this program. By the time you finish this program, you
have the core skills that will make you valuable in any industry that
makes data driven decisions. Which, as it turns out,
is most industries, even zoos. Coming up, we'll check out the business
task where data can be helpful. And, we'll explore even more how data
analysts are empowering businesses through data. I'll see you then.