For any analyst, for any person that's honestly at the early
stages of their career, understanding data,
respecting data and knowing how to work with data is
incredibly important because, my vision is that every role in some form or fashion will
involve data and its use in learning how to extract
insights from it will be at the core of any critical role across any company organization. Generally in those
first two years, you are developing the core skill sets that make you a
fantastic generalist, and then in the next 2-5 years, you're learning about something very specific as as it
relates to your job. Whether it's the area
that you're supporting or maybe a very
technical component. Like, let's say you want to become a SQL expert
so that you can manipulate large data sets for financial analysis purposes. Similarly, even if you come into finance as a data analyst, you can pop out of
finance and go into what a lot of people like
to call the business, which is typically your
Operations Functions and become a business analyst
or a data analysts. There's so many different
paths that you can take from the starting point that you really can't
predict your end. I'm just deeply passionate
about working with and supporting young
people and really giving them a jumpstart
to their career. This stems from honestly my
own personal experience, where in the first two
years of my career, I had essentially zero support from my manager and my
direct management chain. Having gone through that
experience my first few years, I realize and I felt experience how that
can slow you down, and especially when you are
somebody that has a lot of potential and
a lot of ability, you want to be in
an environment that fosters that ability and
really wants to see you grow. I think it's incredibly
important to have programs like these that take away all the barriers that remove any of the
constructs that prevent people from being able
to find out what they need to be in an
industry like this, to be successful in a
role like a data analyst, so that they themselves can dream about where they
can go in their career. My name is Tony. I'm a Finance
program manager at Google.