Hi! Good to see you! My name is Sally, and I'm here to
teach you all about processing data. I'm a measurement and
analytical lead at Google. My job is to help advertising agencies and
companies measure success and analyze their data, so I get to meet with lots of
different people to show them how data analysis helps
with their advertising. Speaking of analysis, you did great
earlier learning how to gather and organize data for analysis. It's definitely an important step in
the data analysis process, so well done! Now let's talk about how to make sure
that your organized data is complete and accurate. Clean data is the key to making sure your
data has integrity before you analyze it. We'll show you how to make sure
your data is clean and tidy. Cleaning and processing data is one part
of the overall data analysis process. As a quick reminder,
that process is Ask, Prepare, Process, Analyze, Share, and Act. Which means it's time for
us to explore the Process phase, and I'm here to guide you the whole way. I'm very familiar with
where you are right now. I'd never heard of data analytics until
I went through a program similar to this one. Once I started making progress, I realized
how much I enjoyed data analytics and the doors it could open. And now I'm excited to help
you open those same doors! One thing I realized as I worked for different companies, is that clean
data is important in every industry. For example, I learned early in my career
to be on the lookout for duplicate data, a common problem that analysts
come across when cleaning. I used to work for a company that had
different types of subscriptions. In our data set, each user would have
a new row for each subscription type they bought, which meant users would
show up more than once in my data. So if I had counted the number of users
in a table without accounting for duplicates like this, I would have
counted some users twice instead of once. As a result, my analysis would have been
wrong, which would have led to problems in my reports and for the stakeholders
relying on my analysis. Imagine if I told the CEO that we
had twice as many customers as we actually did!? That's why clean data is so important. So the first step in processing data
is learning about data integrity. You will find out what
data integrity is and why it is important to maintain it
throughout the data analysis process. Sometimes you might not even
have the data that you need, so you'll have to create it yourself. This will help you learn how sample size
and random sampling can save you time and effort. Testing data is another important
step to take when processing data. We'll share some guidance on how to
test data before your analysis officially begins. Just like you'd clean your clothes and
your dishes in everyday life, analysts clean their data all the time,
too. The importance of clean data
will definitely be a focus here. You'll learn data cleaning techniques for
all scenarios, along with some pitfalls to watch out for
as you clean. You'll explore data cleaning in
both spreadsheets and databases, building on what you've already
learned about spreadsheets. We'll talk more about SQL and
how you can use it to clean data and do other useful things, too. When analysts clean their data, they do
a lot more than a spot check to make sure it was done correctly. You'll learn ways to verify and
report your cleaning results. This includes documenting your
cleaning process, which has lots of benefits that we'll explore. It's important to remember that processing
data is just one of the tasks you'll complete as a data analyst. Actually, your skills with cleaning data
might just end up being something you highlight on your resume
when you start job hunting. Speaking of resumes, you'll be able
to start thinking about how to build your own from the perspective
of a data analyst. Once you're done here, you'll have
a strong appreciation for clean data and how important it is in
the data analysis process. So let's get started!