Hello. Let's talk
about social media. Today, there's 3.8 billion people using social
media around the world. There's a good chance
you probably already have an online
presence. That's great. It means you're already
connecting with people online, maybe even professionally
on websites like LinkedIn. If you aren't, getting started is as easy as signing up today. But there's some
really easy ways you can enhance your
online presence even more and use your
existing profiles to build your
professional identity. One of the first things you should ask yourself
when looking at your new or existing
online presence is this: would you be okay with
potential employers and colleagues seeing your
social media profiles? Try putting yourself
in their shoes. When a potential employer is looking at your public profiles, they're asking themselves
if you're the right person to represent their
company and values. Is there anything on
your current accounts that could make them
think otherwise? If you want to limit
what you share, be sure to check the privacy
settings on your accounts. If they're set to public, anyone can see
everything you post. You can also make specific
photos or albums private, but remember this doesn't
erase them from the internet. Keep in mind, changing
your privacy settings doesn't necessarily keep
all of your posts secure, so you should always think
carefully before you post. Now the best way to make
sure that your posts and photos are appropriate
and professional is to delete any
that you wouldn't want your future boss to see. If you're getting ready to upload photos for the first time, think about how those pictures represent you before
posting them. Feel free to back up these photos for your personal files, but maybe don't put them
on Facebook or Instagram. Speaking of Facebook
and Instagram, there are some easy
options for deleting posts on these platforms. Both Facebook and Instagram have an archive function that allows you to remove posts
from your profile. You can even mass delete
posts on Facebook. While you're at it,
check your Twitter. Your social media profiles
are probably connected, so it's important to make
sure that they're all representing you the way you want to be seen
professionally. A good rule of thumb: your posts should
be family-friendly. This goes for photos
and text posts. Check to make sure
your content and language is appropriate
for the whole family. While you're working on
enhancing your online persona, a professional profile
picture is a great touch. Even if your account
is set to private, recruiters will likely still be able to see your
profile picture. Having a photo for
your LinkedIn profile is important because it significantly increases your chances
of being contacted. Make your profile picture
one that represents your professional side in
the best way possible. Once you've gotten your
profiles up and running, post mindfully. Think about the professional image you are trying to create and stick to it. This means curating posts
for different platforms. Decide which platform you want to use for
family and friends, like Facebook and
Instagram, and keep updates about your personal
life on those platforms. Use professional platforms,
like LinkedIn, for posts related to your work life and building professional
relationships. A huge number of companies
and hiring managers use online sources to
identify and pick candidates. So it's important to make sure that your online presence has a positive impact
on your real life. Make sure your online
presence is job appropriate by making
your accounts private, deleting posts you
wouldn't want your boss or colleagues to see, and
posting mindfully. Don't be afraid to ask
someone you respect professionally to take a look
and give you some feedback. That can be a big help in
building that online presence and using it to make connections within your professional
community. Now that we've built and
enhanced our online presence, let's learn more about
building networks and reaching out to other professionals.
See you soon.