Data is great, but if we can't communicate the
story data is telling, it isn't useful to anyone. We need ways to
organize data that help us turn it
into information. There are all kinds of tools
out there to help you visualize and share your data analysis
with stakeholders. Here, we'll talk about two data presentation tools,
reports and dashboards. Reports and dashboards are both useful for data visualization. But there are pros and
cons for each of them. A report is a static
collection of data given to stakeholders
periodically. A dashboard on the other hand, monitors live, incoming data. Let's talk about reports first. Reports are great for
giving snapshots of high level historical
data for an organization. For example, a finance
firm's monthly sales. Reports come with a
lot of benefits too. They can be designed and
sent out periodically, often on a weekly
or monthly basis, as organized and easy to
reference information. They're quick to
design and easy to use as long as you
continually maintain them. Finally, because reports
use static data or data that doesn't change
once it's been recorded, they reflect data that's already
been cleaned and sorted. There are some downsides
to keep in mind too. Reports need regular maintenance and aren't very
visually appealing. Because they aren't
automatic or dynamic, reports don't show
live, evolving data. For a live reflection
of incoming data, you'll want to
design a dashboard. Dashboards are great
for a lot of reasons, they give your team more access to information being recorded, you can interact through data
by playing with filters, and because they're dynamic, they have long-term value. If stakeholders need to
continually access information, a dashboard can be
more efficient than having to pull reports
over and over, which is a big time
saver for you. Last but not least, they're just nice to look at. But dashboards do
have some cons too. For one thing, they take a
lot of time to design and can actually be less
efficient than reports, if they're not used very often. If the base table
breaks at any point, they need a lot of maintenance to get back up and running again. Dashboards can
sometimes overwhelm people with information too. If you aren't used to looking through data
on a dashboard, you might get lost in it. As a data analyst, you need to decide
the best way to communicate information
to your stakeholders. For example, what if your
stakeholders are interested in the company's
social media engagement? Would a monthly report
that tells them the number of new followers
for their page be useful? Or a dashboard that monitors live social media engagement
across multiple platforms? Later on, you'll create your own reports and dashboards to practice
using these tools. But for now, I want
to show you what a report and a dashboard
might look like. We'll start by using a tool we're already familiar
with, spreadsheets. Let's see one way spreadsheet data could be
visualized in a report. This spreadsheet
has a data set with order details from a
wholesale company. That's a lot of information. From the headers, we can see different things recorded here, like the order date, the salesperson, the unit price, and revenue for each
transaction recorded. It's all useful information, but a little hard to
wrap your head around. We want a report
that's easier to read. Let's say your stakeholders want a quick look at the
revenue by salesperson. Using the data, you
could make them a pivot table with a graph that
shows that information. A pivot table is a data summarization tool that is used in data processing. Pivot tables are used to
summarize, sort, re-organize, group, count, total, or average data
stored in a database. It allows its users to transform columns into rows and
rows into columns. We'll actually learn more
about pivot tables later. But I'll show you
one really quick. We'll select the Data menu
and click Pivot table button. It can pull data from this table. We can just press create and it'll pull
up a new worksheet. Over here, it gives us the pivot table fields
we can choose from. Click select, salesperson
and revenue. Just like that, it
made a chart for us. At this point, you can play around with how
the graph looks, but the information is all there. Let's move on to dashboards. If you need a more dynamic way to share information with
your stakeholders, dashboards are your friend. You might create something
like this Tableau dashboard. With interactive graphs that showcase multiple
views of the data. With this, users can change
location, date range, or any other aspect of
the data they're viewing by clicking through different
elements on the dashboard. Pretty cool, right? Later in this program, we'll look into how you can make your own data visualizations. We have a lot to learn
before we get to that. But I hope this was an
exciting first peek at the different visualization tools you'll be using as
a data analyst.