Welcome back. We've talked a lot about understanding
your stakeholders and your team so that you can
balance their needs and maintain a clear focus on
your project objectives. A big part of that is building good relationships with the
people you're working with. How do you do that? Two
words: clear communication. Now we're going to learn
about the importance of clear communication with your stakeholders
and team members. Start thinking about
who you want to communicate with and when. First, it might
help to think about communication
challenges you might already experience
in your daily life. Have you ever been in
the middle of telling a really funny joke only to find out your friend already
knows the punchline? Or maybe they just didn't
get what was funny about it? This happens all the time, especially if you don't
know your audience. This kind of thing can
happen at the workplace too. Here's the secret to
effective communication. Before you put together
a presentation, send an e-mail, or even tell that hilarious
joke to your co-worker, think about who your audience is, what they already know, what they need to
know and how you can communicate that
effectively to them. When you start by thinking
about your audience, they'll know it and
appreciate the time you took to consider them
and their needs. Let's say you're working
on a big project, analyzing annual
sales data, and you discover that all of the
online sales data is missing. This could affect
your whole team and significantly delay the project. By thinking through
these four questions, you can map out the best way to communicate across your
team about this problem. First, you'll need to think
about who your audience is. In this case, you'll
want to connect with other data analysts
working on the project, as well as your project manager and eventually the VP of sales, who is your stakeholder. Next up, you'll think through what this group already knows. The other data analysts
working on this project know all the details about which data-set you
are using already, and your project manager knows the timeline you're
working towards. Finally, the VP of sales knows the high-level
goals of the project. Then you'll ask yourself what they need to know
to move forward. Your fellow data analysts need to know the details of
where you have tried so far and any potential
solutions you've come up with. Your project manager would need to know the different teams that could be affected and the implications for the project, especially if this problem
changes the timeline. Finally, the VP of sales will
need to know that there is a potential issue that would
delay or affect the project. Now that you've decided
who needs to know what, you can choose the best way
to communicate with them. Instead of a long,
worried e-mail which could lead to lots
back and forth, you decide to quickly
book in a meeting with your project manager
and fellow analysts. In the meeting, you let
the team know about the missing online sales data and give them more
background info. Together, you discuss how this impacts other
parts of the project. As a team, you come
up with a plan and update the project
timeline if needed. In this case, the VP of sales didn't need to be
invited to your meeting, but would appreciate
an e-mail update if there were changes to the timeline which
your project manager might send along herself. When you communicate thoughtfully and think about your
audience first, you'll build better
relationships and trust with your team
members and stakeholders. That's important because
those relationships are key to the project's success
and your own too. When you're getting
ready to send an e-mail, organize some meeting, or
put together a presentation, think about who your audience is, what they already know, what they need to
know and how you can communicate that
effectively to them. Next up, we'll talk more about communicating
at work and you'll learn some useful
tips to make sure you get your message
across clearly.