No matter where you work, you'll probably need to communicate with
other people as part of your day to day. Every organization and every team in
that organization will have different expectations for communication. Coming up, We'll learn some practical ways to help
you adapt to those different expectations and some things that you can
carry over from team to team. Let's get started. When you started a new job or a new
project, you might find yourself feeling a little out of sync with the rest of
your team and how they communicate. That's totally normal. You'll figure things out in no time. if you're willing to learn as you go and ask questions when you
aren't sure of something. For example, if you find your team uses
acronyms you aren't familiar with, don't be afraid to ask what they mean. When I first started at google,
I had no idea what L G T M meant and
I was always seeing it in comment threads. Well, I learned it stands for looks
good to me and I use it all the time now if I need to give
someone my quick feedback, that was one of the many
acronyms I've learned and I come across new ones all the time and
I'm never afraid to ask. Every work setting has
some form of etiquette. Maybe your team members appreciate
eye contact and a firm handshake. Or it might be more polite to bow, especially if you find yourself
working with international clients. You might also discover some specific
etiquette rules just by watching your coworkers communicate. And
it won't just be in person communication you'll deal with. Almost 300 billion emails are sent and
received every day and that number is only growing. Fortunately
there are useful skills you can learn from those digital
communications too. You'll want your emails to be just as professional
as your in-person communications. Here are some things that can help you do
that. Good writing practices will go a long way to make your emails professional and
easy to understand. Emails are naturally more
formal than texts, but that doesn't mean that you have
to write the next great novel. Just taking the time to write complete
sentences that have proper spelling and punctuation will make it clear you took time and consideration in your writing. Emails often
get forwarded to other people to read. So write clearly enough that
anyone could understand you. I like to read important emails out
loud before I hit send; that way, I can hear if they make sense and
catch any typos. And keep in mind the tone of your
emails can change over time. If you find that your team is
fairly casual, that's great. Once you get to know them better,
you can start being more casual too, but being professional is always a good
place to start. A good rule of thumb: Would you be proud of what you had written
if it were published on the front page of a newspaper? If not revise it until you are. You also
don't want your emails to be too long. Think about what your team member needs
to know and get to the point instead of overwhelming them with a wall of text.
You'll want to make sure that your emails are clear and concise so
they don't get lost in the shuffle. Let's take a quick look at two emails so
that you can see what I mean. Here's the first email. There's so much written here that it's kind of hard
to see where the important information is. And this first paragraph doesn't give me a
quick summary of the important takeaways. It's pretty casual to the greeting is just, "Hey," and there's no sign off. Plus I can already spot some typos. Now let's take a look at
the second email. Already, it's less overwhelming, right? Just a few sentences,
telling me what I need to know. It's clearly organized and
there's a polite greeting and sign off. This is a good example of an email; short
and to the point, polite and well-written. All of the things we've
been talking about so far. But what do you do if, what you need
to say is too long for an email? Well, you might want to
set up a meeting instead. It's important to answer
in a timely manner as well. You don't want to take so long replying to emails that your coworkers
start wondering if you're okay. I always try to answer
emails in 24-48 hours. Even if it's just to
give them a timeline for when I'll have the actual
answers they're looking for. That way, I can set expectations and
they know I'm working on it. That works the other way around too. If you need a response on something
specific from one of your team members, be clear about what you need and when you
need it so that they can get back to you. I'll even include a date
in my subject line and bold dates in the body of my email, so it's really clear. Remember, being
clear about your needs is a big part of being a good communicator. We covered some great ways to improve our
professional communication skills, like asking questions, practicing good writing
habits and some email tips and tricks. These will help you
communicate clearly and effectively with your team
members on any project. It might take some time, but you'll find a
communication style that works for you and your team, both in person and online. As long as you're willing to learn,
you won't have any problems adapting to the different communication
expectations you'll see in future jobs.