We discussed before how
data has limitations. Sometimes you don't have
access to the data you need, or your data sources aren't aligned or
your data is unclean. This can definitely be a problem
when you're analyzing data, but it can also affect your communication
with your stakeholders. That's why it's important to balance your
stakeholders' expectations with what is actually possible for a project. We're going to learn about the importance
of setting realistic, objective goals and how to best communicate with
your stakeholders about problems you might run into. Keep in mind that a lot of
things depend on your analysis. Maybe your team can't make
a decision without your report. Or maybe your initial data
work will determine how and where additional data will be gathered. You might remember that
we've talked about some situations where it's important to
loop stakeholders in. For example, telling your project manager if you're on
schedule or if you're having a problem. Now, let's look at a real-life example
where you need to communicate with stakeholders and what you might
do if you run into a problem. Let's say you're working on a project for
an insurance company. The company wants to identify common
causes of minor car accidents so that they can develop educational
materials that encourage safer driving. There's a few early questions you and
your team need to answer. What driving habits will you
include in your dataset? How will you gather this data? How long will it take you to collect and clean that data before you can use
it in your analysis? Right away you want to communicate clearly with your
stakeholders to answer these questions, so you and your team can set a reasonable
and realistic timeline for the project. It can be tempting to tell your
stakeholders that you'll have this done in no time, no problem. But setting expectations for a realistic
timeline will help you in the long run. Your stakeholders will know what to
expect when, and you won't be overworking yourself and missing deadlines
because you overpromised. I find that setting expectations early
helps me spend my time more productively. So as you're getting started, you'll
want to send a high-level schedule with different phases of the project and
their approximate start dates. In this case, you and your teams
establish that you'll need three weeks to complete analysis and
provide recommendations, and you let your stakeholders know so
they can plan accordingly. Now let's imagine you're further along in
the project and you run into a problem. Maybe drivers have opted into sharing data
about their phone usage in the car, but you discover that some sources count GPS
usage, and some don't in their data. This might add time to your
data processing and cleaning and delay some project milestones. You'll want to let your
project manager know and maybe work out a new timeline
to present to stakeholders. The earlier you can flag
these problems, the better. That way your stakeholders can make
necessary changes as soon as possible. Or what if your stakeholders want to add
car model or age as possible variables. You'll have to communicate with them
about how that might change the model you've built, if it can be added and
before the deadlines, and any other obstacles that
they need to know so they can decide if it's worth changing at
this stage of the project. To help them you might prepare a report on how their
request changes the project timeline or alters the model. You could also outline the pros and
cons of that change. You want to help your stakeholders achieve
their goals, but it's important to set realistic expectations at
every stage of the project. This takes some balance. You've learned about balancing the needs
of your team members and stakeholders, but you also need to balance
stakeholder expectations and what's possible with the projects, resources, and limitations. That's why it's important to be realistic
and objective and communicate clearly. This will help stakeholders
understand the timeline and have confidence in your ability
to achieve those goals. So we know communication is key and we have some good rules to follow
for our professional communication. Coming up we'll talk even more about
answering stakeholder questions, delivering data and
communicating with your team.