I'm Sarah and
I'm a senior analytical leader at Google. As a data analyst, there's going
to be times where you have different stakeholders who have no idea about
the amount of time that it takes you to do each project, and in the very beginning
when I'm asked to do a project or to look into something, I always try
to give a little bit of expectation settings on the turn around
because most of your stakeholders don't really understand what you do
with data and how you get it and how you clean it and
put together the story behind it. The other thing that I want to
make clear to everyone is that you have to make sure that
the data tells you the stories. Sometimes people think that
data can answer everything and sometimes we have to acknowledge
that that is simply untrue. I recently worked with a state to figure
out why people weren't signing up for the benefits that they needed and
deserved. We saw people coming to the site and where they would sign up for those
benefits and see if they're qualified. But for some reason there was something
stopping them from taking the step of actually signing up. So I was able to look into it using
Google Analytics to try to uncover what is stopping people from taking the action of
signing up for these benefits that they need and deserve. And so I go into Google Analytics, I see people are going back
between this service page and the unemployment page back to the service
page, back to the unemployment page. And so I came up with a theory that hey,
people aren't finding the information that they need in order to take the next step
to see if they qualify for these services. The only way that I can actually know why someone left the site without
taking action is if I ask them. I would have to survey them. Google Analytics did not give
me the data that I would need to 100% back my theory or deny it. So when you're explaining
to your stakeholders, "Hey I have a theory. This data is telling me a story. However I can't 100% know due
to the limitations of data," You just have to say it. So the way that I communicate that
is I say "I have a theory that people are not finding the information that
they need in order to take action. Here's the proved points that I
have that support that theory." So what we did was we then made it
a little bit easier to find that information. Even though
we weren't 100% sure that my theory was correct, we were
confident enough to take action and then we looked back, and we saw all the metrics
that pointed me to this theory improve. And so that always feels really good when
you're able to help a cause that you believe in do better,
and help more people through data. It makes all the nerdy learning about
SQL and everything completely worth it.