We live in a world that
loves instant gratification, whether it's overnight
delivery or on-demand movies. We want what we want
and we want it now. But in the data world, speed can sometimes be
the enemy of accuracy, especially when
collaboration is required. We're going to talk
about how to balance speedy answers with
right ones and how to best address these issues by re-framing questions
and outlining problems. That way your team members and stakeholders understand
what answers they can expect when. As data analysts,
we need to know the why behind things
like a sales slump, a player's batting average,
or rainfall totals. It's not just about the figures, it's about the context
too and getting to the bottom of these
things takes time. So if a stakeholder comes
knocking on your door, a lot of times that person may not really
know what they need. They just know they
want it at light speed. But sometimes the
pressure gets to us and even the most experienced
data analysts can be tempted to cut
corners and provide flawed or unfinished data
in the interest of time. When that happens, so much of the story in
the data gets lost. That's why
communication is one of the most valuable tools
for working with teams. It's important to start with structured thinking and a
well-planned scope of work, which we talked about earlier. If you start with a
clear understanding of your stakeholders'
expectations, you can then develop
a realistic scope of work that outlines agreed
upon expectations, timelines, milestones,
and reports. This way, your team always has a road map to
guide their actions. If you're pressured for something that's outside of the scope, you can feel confidence setting more realistic
expectations. At the end of the day, it's your job to balance fast answers with
the right answers. Not to mention figuring out what the person is really asking. Now seems like a good
time for an example. Imagine your VP of HR shows
up at your desk demanding to see how many new hires are completing a training
course they've introduced. She says, "There's no way people are going through
each section of the course. The human resources team
is getting slammed with questions. We should probably
just cancel the program." How would you respond? Well, you could log
into the system, crunch some numbers, and hand
them to your supervisor. That would take no time at all. But the quick answer might
not be the most accurate one. So instead, you could
re-frame her question, outline the problem, challenges, potential solutions,
and time-frame. You might say, "I can certainly check out the rates
of completion, but I sense there may be
more to the story here. Could you give me two days to run some reports and learn
what's really going on?" With more time, you
can gain context. You and the VP of HR decide to expand the
project timeline, so you can spend time gathering anonymous survey data from new employees about
the training course. Their answers provide data
that can help you pinpoint exactly why completion
rates are so low. Employees are reporting that the course feels
confusing and outdated. Because you were able to take time to address the
bigger problem, the VP of HR has a better idea about why
new employees aren't completing the course and can make new decisions
about how to update it. Now the training course is
easy to follow and the HR department isn't
getting as many questions. Everybody benefits. Redirecting the conversation
will help you find the real problem which leads to more insightful and
accurate solutions. But it's important
to keep in mind, sometimes you need
to be the bearer of bad news and that's okay. Communicating about problems,
potential solutions and different expectations
can help you move forward on a project
instead of getting stuck. When it comes to communicating answers with your teams
and stakeholders, the fastest answer and the most accurate answer aren't
usually the same answer. But by making sure
that you understand their needs and setting
expectations clearly, you can balance
speed and accuracy. Just make sure to be clear and upfront and you'll find success.