Data has the power to change the world. Think about this.
A bank identifies 15 new opportunities to promote a product,
resulting in $120 million in revenue. A distribution company figures out
a better way to manage shipping, reducing their cost by $500,000. Google creates a new tool that can
identify breast cancer tumors in nearby lymph nodes. These are all amazing achievements, but
do you know what they have in common? They're all the results of data analytics. You absolutely have the power to
change the world as a data analyst. And it starts with how you
share data with your team. In this video, we will think through all of the variables
you should consider when sharing data. When you successfully
deliver data to your team, you can ensure that they're able to
make the best possible decisions. Earlier we learned that speed can
sometimes affect accuracy when sharing database information with a team. That's why you need a solid process
that weighs the outcomes and actions of your analysis. So where do you start? Well, the best solutions
start with questions. You might remember from our last video,
that stakeholders will have a lot of questions but it's up to you to
figure out what they really need. So ask yourself, does your analysis
answer the original question? Are there other angles
you haven't considered? Can you answer any questions that may
get asked about your data and analysis? That last question brings up
something else to think about. How detailed should you be
when sharing your results? Would a high level analysis be okay? Above all else, your data analysis
should help your team make better, more informed decisions. Here is another example: Imagine
a landscaping company is facing rising costs and they can't stay
competitive in the bidding process. One question you could ask
to solve this problem is, can the company find new suppliers
without compromising quality? If you gave them a high-level analysis, you'd probably just include the number
of clients and cost of supplies. Here your stakeholder might object. She's worried that reducing quality
will limit the company's ability to stay competitive and keep customers happy. Well, she's got a point. In that case, you need to provide a more
detailed data analysis to change her mind. This might mean exploring how
customers feel about different brands. You might learn that customers
don't have a preference for specific landscape brands. So the company can change to the more
affordable suppliers without compromising quality. If you feel comfortable using the data
to answer all these questions and considerations, you've probably
landed on a solid conclusion. Nice! Now that you understand some of the
variables involved with sharing data with a team, like process and outcome, you're
one step closer to making sure that your team has all the information they need
to make informed, data-driven decisions.