Hey. It's great to have you back. We've talked a little bit about the data analysis process. As a quick refresher, the data analysis process phases are ask, prepare, process, analyze, share, and act. You might remember
me saying earlier that this entire program is
modeled after these steps. Now, we're going
to really dig in and explore how each of
these phases work together. But I'm getting a
little ahead of myself. First, let's spend a little time understanding the data life cycle. No, data isn't actually alive, but it does have a life cycle. How do data analysts bring data to life? Well, it starts with the
right data analysis tool. These include
spreadsheets, databases, query languages, and
visualization software. Don't worry if you don't
know how these work, or even what they are. At one point, every data analyst has been right where
you are right now, and they probably had a
lot of the same questions. I remember when I first started learning about spreadsheets. I was a young intern, and the company I
was working for was in the middle of
a big systems change. That meant, we had
to move tons of reports from the old
system to the new one. After a few weeks, I noticed that even the people who were further
in their careers were not as technically
minded as I was. That became a great opportunity
for me to add value. My aha spreadsheet moment came when I started
researching shortcuts that I could use to work with the spreadsheets
more efficiently. This would really
streamline the process of getting those reports moved
over to the new system. Once everything started flowing, I remember getting emails from other finance analysts
at the company. They were so grateful that someone had come in and fixed a problem
that no one else could. That inspired me to
go even further and learn how to
use spreadsheets in all sorts of incredible ways. As you continue
through this course, I bet you'll be just
as impressed as I was. And before you know
it, you'll bring data to life too. Let's get started.