Albert Einstein once
said," If I were given one hour to
save the planet, I would spend 59 minutes defining the problem and one
minute resolving it." Now, that might seem extreme, but it does show us just
how important it is to define the problems
before trying to solve them. A lot of times, teams jump right into data
analysis before realizing a few months later
that they are either solving the wrong problem or they don't have
the right data. In this video, we will
learn how to develop a structured approach to
defining the problem domain. This is important
because if you define the problem clearly
from the start, it'll be easier to solve, which saves a lot of time,
money, and resources. In the data world, we call this first piece
the problem domain: the specific area of
analysis that encompasses every activity affecting or
affected by the problem. Before we can do anything else, we need to understand the problem domain
and all of its parts and relationships so that we can discover the whole story. Actually calling it the first piece makes me think
of a jigsaw puzzle. Say you have a puzzle. Let's think of that puzzle
as our problem domain. You have all 500 pieces
but you lost the box. So you don't know what
image the puzzle will reveal. Will it be an animal? A waterfall? A bowl of oranges? Whatever it is, it's going
to be tough trying to put it together without an
image you can refer to. Even the greatest puzzler
in the galaxy would need a new process and lots of time to
complete that puzzle. Data analysts face the same kinds of challenges too. You might remember that
data analysts aren't always given the
complete picture at the start of a project. A big part of their
job is to develop a structured approach and use critical thinking to
find the best solution. That starts with understanding
the problem domain. This is where structured
thinking comes into play. To successfully solve a
problem as a data analyst, you need to train your brain
to think structurally. That's exactly what you'll learn coming up. See you there.