Earlier I told you that carefully defining a business problem can ultimately save time,
money, and resources. All of this is achieved
through structured thinking. Structured thinking
is the process of recognizing the current
problem or situation, organizing available information, revealing gaps and opportunities, and identifying the options. In other words, it's a way
of being super prepared. It's having a clear list of what you are expected to deliver, a timeline for major
tasks and activities, and checkpoints so the team
knows you're making progress. In this video, we'll look at how structured thinking helps
us save time and effort, but also makes our job
as data analysts easier because it allows us to better understand the work we are doing. In the business world, it's common for teams
to spend hours of valuable time trying to
solve an important problem, only to end up back
where they started. Not only is the initial
problem not resolved, but they've spent hours
not resolving it. This outcome negatively
affects you, your team, and the
organization as a whole. But it can usually be prevented. Many times the situation is a result of not fully
understanding the issue. Structured thinking will help you understand problems
at a high level so that you can identify
areas that need deeper investigation
and understanding. The starting place for structured thinking is
the problem domain, which you might have
remembered from earlier. Once you know the specific
area of analysis, you can set your base and lay out all your requirements and hypotheses before you
start investigating. With a solid base in place, you'll be ready to deal with
any obstacles that come up. What kind of obstacles? Well, let's say you're asked to predict
the future value of an apartment building
based on a given dataset. You have hundreds
of variables and every one is crucial
to your analysis. But what if one variable
accidentally gets left out, like square footage, for example? You'd have to go back and
redo all your hard work. That's because
missing variables can lead to inaccurate conclusions. Another way that you can
practice structured thinking and avoid mistakes is by
using a scope of work. A scope of work or
SOW is an agreed- upon outline of the work you're going to
perform on a project. For many businesses, this includes things
like work details, schedules, and reports that
the client can expect. Now, as a data analyst, your scope of work
will be a bit more technical and include those basic items
we just mentioned, but you'll also focus on things like data preparation,
validation, analysis of quantitative
and qualitative datasets, initial results, and maybe even some visuals to really
get the point across. Let's bring a scope of work to life with a simple example. Say a couple has hired
a wedding planner. We'll focus on just one task,
the wedding invitations. Here's what might be in
scope of work: deliverables, timeline, milestones,
and reports. Let's break down just one
of these, deliverables. The wedding planner and couple will need to
decide on the invitation, make a list of people to invite,
collect their addresses, print the invitations,
address the envelopes, stamp them, and mail them out. Now let's check
out the timelines. You'll notice the dates and the milestones which
keep us on track. Finally, we have the reports, which give our couple
some peace of mind by telling them when each
step is complete. A scope of work can be a
simple but powerful tool. With a solid scope of work, you'll be able to
address any confusion, contradictions, or
questions about the data up- front and make sure these sneaky setbacks
don't stand in your way. This is a simple example of what a scope of
work might look like. But later, you'll be able to
practice building your own. Next up in our scope, we'll check out setbacks from a different angle by learning the importance of contextualizing
data and avoiding bias. Looking forward to sharing
some cool insights with you.