Welcome back. In this video, we'll explore the importance
of contextualizing data, and recognizing data
bias. Let's get started. Data doesn't live in a
vacuum, it needs context. Earlier, we learnt
that context is the condition in which
something exists or happens. Actions can be appropriate
in some context, but inappropriate in others, for example, yelling move, is rude one context, if your friend is standing
in front of the TV, but it's entirely
appropriate in another, if that friend is about to get hit by a kid on a tricycle. Do you see the difference? In the world of data, numbers don't mean
much without context. I'll let my fellow Googler Ed, tell you a little
bit more about that As we have more and more
data available to us. We can leverage that data in increasingly
sophisticated ways, and generate more powerful
insights from it. We use data at many
different levels. Sometimes our data
is descriptive, answering questions like, how much did we spend on
travel last month? Data becomes more valuable, as we generate diagnostic
and predictive insights, like understanding why travel
spend increased last month. Data is most valuable, however, when we can generate
prescriptive insights. For example, how can we leverage data to incentivize
more efficient travel? Figuring out what data means, is just as important
as collecting it. As a data analyst, a big part of your job, is putting data into context. It's also up to you, to remain objective and recognize all sides of an argument,
before drawing conclusions. The thing about context, is that it's very personal. If two people curate
the same data set, and follow the same directions, there's a chance they will end
up with different results. Why? Because there is no universal set of
contextual interpretations. Everyone approaches
it in their own way. Even if the data collection
process is correct, the analysis can still
be misinterpreted. Conclusions can be influenced by your own conscious and
subconscious biases, which are based on cultural, social and market norms. For example, if you
ask a Boston resident, which baseball team is the best, chances are, they're going
to say Boston Red Sox. Which brings us to a major
limitation of data analytics. If the analysis is not objective, the conclusions
can be misleading. To really understand
what the data is about, you have to think
through who, what, where, when, how and why. It's good to ask
yourself questions like, who collected the data? And what is it about? What does the data
represent in the world, and how does it
relate to other data? When, was the data collected? Data collected awhile ago may have certain limitations, given the present day situation. For example, if we collected phone numbers over the past
century, at some point, mobile phones would
have been introduced, leading to the need for an
additional phone number field. You should also think about, where, was the data collected? A lot can change across cities, states and countries, and
how was it collected. A survey might not
be as effective as an in-person
interview, for example. Of course, there's the, why. The why can have a particularly strong
relationship with bias. Why? Because sometimes,
data is collected, or even made up, to
serve an agenda. The best thing you can do for the fairness and
accuracy of your data, is to make sure you start with an accurate representation
of the population, and collect the data in the most appropriate, and objective way. Then, you'll have the facts so you can pass on to your team. Hopefully you now understand the importance of fair
and objective data, and how important a context is, when it comes to understanding
and interpreting it. Next up, we'll figure out
how we can bring it to life.