So now that we know the
importance of finding the balance across
your stakeholders and your team members. I want to talk about
the importance of staying focused on the objective. This can be tricky when you find yourself working
with a lot of people with competing needs
and opinions. But by asking yourself a
few simple questions at the beginning of each task, you can ensure that you're able to stay focused on your objective while still
balancing stakeholder needs. Let's think about our
employee turnover example from the last video. There, we were
dealing with a lot of different team members and
stakeholders like managers, administrators, even
other analysts. As a data analyst, you'll find that
balancing everyone's needs can be a little chaotic sometimes but part of your
job is to look past the clutter and stay
focused on the objective. It's important to concentrate on what matters and
not get distracted. As a data analyst, you could be working on
multiple projects with lots of different people but no matter what project you're working on, there are three things you can focus on that will
help you stay on task. One, who are the primary
and secondary stakeholders? Two who is managing the data? And three where can you go for help? Let's see if we can apply those questions to
our example project. The first question you can ask is about who those stakeholders are. The primary stakeholder of this project is probably
the Vice President of HR who's hoping to use his project's findings to make new decisions about
company policy. You'd also be giving updates to your project manager,
team members, or other data analysts who are depending on your work
for their own task. These are your
secondary stakeholders. Take time at the beginning
of every project to identify your stakeholders
and their goals. Then see who else is on your team
and what their roles are. Next, you'll want to ask
who's managing the data? For example, think about working with other
analysts on this project. You're all data analysts, but you may manage different
data within your project. In our example, there
was another data analyst who was focused on managing
the company's hiring data. Their insights around
a surge of new hires 18 months ago turned out to be a key part of your analysis. If you hadn't communicated
with this person, you might have spent
a lot of time trying to collect or analyze hiring data yourself or you may not have even been able to include
it in your analysis at all. Instead, you were able to communicate your
objectives with another data analyst and use existing work to make
your analysis richer. By understanding who's
managing the data, you can spend your time
more productively. Next step, you need to know where you can go
when you need help. This is something
you should know at the beginning of any
project you work on. If you run into bumps in the road on your way
to completing a task, you need someone who is best positioned to take down
those barriers for you. When you know who's able to help, you'll spend less time worrying
about other aspects of the project and more time
focused on the objective. So who could you go to if you ran into a problem
on this project? Project managers support you and your work by managing
the project timeline, providing guidance and resources, and setting up
efficient workflows. They have a big picture
view of the project because they know what you and the rest of the
team are doing. This makes them a great resource if you run into a problem in the employee turnover example, you would need to
be able to access employee departure survey data to include in your analysis. If you're having trouble getting approvals for that access, you can speak with your
project manager to remove those barriers for
you so that you can move forward
with your project. Your team depends on you to stay focused on your task
so that as a team, you can find solutions. By asking yourself
three easy questions at the beginning of new projects, you'll be able to address
stakeholder needs, feel confident about who is
managing the data, and get help when you need it so that you can keep your
eyes on the prize: the project objective. So far we've covered the importance
of working effectively on a team while maintaining your
focus on stakeholder needs. Coming up, we'll go over some
practical ways to become better communicators
so that we can help make sure the team
reaches its goals.