In this video, I'm going to share some case studies that highlight the incredible
work data analysts do. Each of these scenarios
shows off the power of data-driven decision-making
in unexpected ways. The first story is about Google. As I mentioned a little
while back, here at Google, our mission is to organize the world's information
and make it universally accessible
and useful. All of our products, from idea to
development to launch, are built on data and
data-driven decision-making. There are tons of examples
here at Google of people using facts to
create business strategy. But one of the most famous ones has to do with Google's
human resources. Here's how it went.
The HR department wanted to know if there was
value in having managers. Were their contributions
worthwhile? Or should everyone just be
an individual contributor? To answer that question, Google's people
analytics team looked at past performance reviews
and employee surveys. The data they found
was plotted on a graph because as
you've learned, visuals are extremely helpful when trying to understand
a problem or concept. The graph revealed that Googlers had positive feelings
about their managers, but the data was pretty general and the team wanted
to learn more. So they dug deeper and split
the data into quartiles. A quartile divides
data points into four equal parts or quarters. Here's where the really cool
stuff started happening. The data analysts discovered that there was a big difference between the very top and
the very bottom quartiles. As it turned out, the teams with the best managers were
significantly happier, more productive, and more likely to want to keep
working at Google. This confirmed that managers were valued and make a big difference. Therefore, the idea of having only individual contributors
was not implemented. But there was still
more work to do. Just knowing that
great managers create great results doesn't lead
to actionable insights. You have to identify what
exactly makes a great manager, so the team took two additional steps
to collect more data. First, they launched
an awards program where employees could nominate
their favorite managers. For every submission you
had to provide examples or data about what makes
that manager great. The second step involved interviewing managers
who were graphed on the top and bottom quartiles. This helped the analytics
team see the differences between successful and less successful management behaviors. The best behaviors
were identified as were the most common reasons for a manager needing improvement. The final step was sharing these insights and
putting a procedure in place for evaluating managers with these
qualities in mind. This data-driven decision
continues to create an exceptional
company culture for my colleagues and
me. Thanks, data. Another interesting example comes from the nonprofit sector. Nonprofits are organizations
dedicated to advancing a social cause or advocating
for a particular effort, such as food security, education or the arts. In this case, data analysts researched how journalists can make a more meaningful impact for the nonprofits
they would write about. Because journalists
write for newspapers, magazines, and
other news outlets, they can help nonprofits
reach readers like you and me, who then take action to help nonprofits
reach their goals. For instance, say you
read about the problem of climate change in
an online magazine. If the article is effective, you'll learn more about the
cause and might even be compelled to make greener choices in your day-to-day life, volunteer for a nonprofit, or make a donation. That's an example of the journalist's work
bringing about awareness, understanding, and engagement.
So, back to the story. The data analysts used a tracker
to monitor story topics, clicks, web traffic,
comments, shares and more. Then they evaluated the
information to make recommendations for
how the journalists could do their jobs even better. In the end, they came up with some great ideas for
how nonprofits and journalists can motivate people everywhere to work together and make the world
a better place. There's really no end to what you can do as a data analyst. As you progress
through this program, you'll discover even
more possibilities. Great job following along with the topics of these
past few videos. You learned all about
analytical skills and the five key characteristics
of data analysts. You probably even
learned that you are a pro at most
of these already. Next, you discovered what it
means to think analytically and the specific
skills data analysts develop to help them do it. You explored tools and processes that enable
data analysts to pinpoint a problem and ask the right questions in
order to solve them. Finally, some real-world
stories helped illustrate why data-driven
decision-making is usually more successful
than other methods. You're building a
wonderful foundation for your career as
a data analyst. With every video, your skills
will continue to expand, and your understanding
of key data analytics concepts will only get stronger. Soon, you'll have a chance to test out everything
you've learned. This is a really useful
opportunity to check your understanding of all the
concepts we've discussed, and if you're ever
unsure about a question, you can review the videos and readings to find the answer. This is another awesome way
to practice collecting data. Keep up the great work.