Hey there! Earlier, we touched on margin of
error without explaining it completely. Well, we're going to right that wrong
in this video by explaining margin of error more. We'll even include an example
of how to calculate it. As a data analyst, it's important for you
to figure out sample size and variables like confidence level and margin of error
before running any kind of test or survey. It's the best way to make sure
your results are objective, and it gives you a better chance of getting
statistically significant results. But if you already know the sample size,
like when you're given survey results to analyze, you can calculate
the margin of error yourself. Then you'll have a better idea of how much of
a difference there is between your sample and your population. We'll start at the beginning
with a more complete definition. Margin of error is the maximum that
the sample results are expected to differ from those of
the actual population. Let's think about an example
of margin of error. It would be great to survey or
test an entire population, but it's usually impossible or
impractical to do this. So instead, we take a sample
of the larger population. Based on the sample size, the resulting margin of error will tell
us how different the results might be compared to the results if we had
surveyed the entire population. Margin of error helps you understand how
reliable the data from your hypothesis testing is. The closer to zero the margin of error,
the closer your results from your sample would match results
from the overall population. For example, let's say you completed a nationwide
survey using a sample of the population. You asked people who work five-day
workweeks whether they like the idea of a four-day workweek. So your survey tells you that
60% prefer a four-day workweek. The margin of error was 10%, which tells us that between
50 and 70% like the idea. So if we were to survey all
five-day workers nationwide, between 50 and 70% would
agree with our results. Keep in mind that our range
is between 50 and 70%. That's because the margin of error
is counted in both directions from the survey results of 60%. If you set up a 95% confidence
level for your survey, there'll be a 95% chance that the
entire population's responses will fall between 50 and 70% saying, yes,
they want a four-day workweek. Since your margin of error overlaps
with that 50% mark, you can't say for sure that the public likes
the idea of a four-day workweek. In that case, you'd have to say
your survey was inconclusive. Now, if you wanted a lower
margin of error, say 5%, with a range between 55 and 65%,
you could increase the sample size. But if you've already been
given the sample size, you can calculate the margin
of error yourself. Then you can decide yourself how
much of a chance your results have of being statistically significant
based on your margin of error. In general, the more people
you include in your survey, the more likely your sample is
representative of the entire population. Decreasing the confidence level
would also have the same effect, but that would also make it less
likely that your survey is accurate. So to calculate margin of
error, you need three things: population size, sample size,
and confidence level. And just like with sample size, you can find lots of calculators online by
searching "margin of error calculator." But we'll show you in a spreadsheet, just like we did when we
calculated sample size. Lets say you're running a study on
the effectiveness of a new drug. You have a sample size
of 500 participants whose condition affects 1%
of the world's population. That's about 80 million people,
which is the population for your study. Since it's a drug study, you need
to have a confidence level of 99%. You also need a low margin of error. Let's calculate it. We'll put the numbers for population, confidence level, and sample size, in the appropriate
spreadsheet cells. And our result is a margin of error
of close to 6%, plus or minus. When the drug study is complete, you'd
apply the margin of error to your results to determine how reliable
your results might be. Calculators like this one in the
spreadsheet are just one of the many tools you can use to ensure data integrity. And it's also good to remember that
checking for data integrity and aligning the data with your objectives will put you
in good shape to complete your analysis. Knowing about sample size,
statistical power, margin of error, and other topics we've covered
will help your analysis run smoothly. That's a lot of new concepts to take in. If you'd like to review them at any time, you can find them all in the glossary,
or feel free to rewatch the video! Soon you'll explore the ins and
outs of clean data. The data adventure keeps moving! I'm so glad you're moving along with it. You got this!