In this video, I'm going to share an interesting data
analytics case study, it will illustrate how problem solving relates to each phase of the data analysis
process and shed some light on how these phases
work in the real world. It's about a small
business that used data to solve a unique
problem it was facing. The business is called
Anywhere Gaming Repair. It's a service provider
that comes to you to fix your broken video game
systems or accessories. The owner wanted to
expand his business. He knew advertising is a proven way to get
more customers, but he wasn't sure
where to start. There are all kinds of different
advertising strategies, including print, billboards,
TV commercials, public transportation,
podcasts, and radio. One of the key things to
think about when choosing an advertising method is
your target audience, in other words, the specific people you're
trying to reach. For example, if a medical
equipment manufacturer wanted to reach doctors, placing an ad in a health magazine would
be a smart choice. Or if a catering company
wanted to find new cooks, it might advertise using a poster at a bus stop near
a cooking school. Both of these are
great ways to get your ad seen by your
target audience. The second thing to think
about is your budget and how much the different
advertising methods will cost. For instance, a TV ad is likely to be more expensive
than a radio ad. A large billboard
will probably cost more than a small poster
on the back of a city bus. The business owner
asked a data analyst, Maria, to make a recommendation. She started with
the first step in the data analysis process, Ask. Maria began by defining the problem that
needed to be solved. To do this, she first had to zoom out and look at the whole
situation in context. That way she could be sure
that she was focusing on the real problem and
not just its symptoms. This leads us to
another important part of the problem solving process, collaborating with stakeholders and understanding their needs. For Anywhere Gaming
Repair, stakeholders included the owner, the vice president
of communications, and the director of
marketing and finance. Working together, Maria and the stakeholders
agreed on the problem, not knowing their target audience's preferred type of advertising. Next step was the prepare phase, where Maria collected data for the upcoming analysis process. But first, she needed to better understand the company's
target audience, people with video game systems. After that, Maria collected data on the different
advertising methods. This way, she would be able
to determine which was the most popular one with the
company's target audience. Then she moved on to
the process step. Here Maria cleaned
the data to eliminate any errors or inaccuracies that could get in the
way of the result. As we've learned,
when you clean data, you transform it into
a more useful format, create more complete information
and remove outliers. Then it was time to analyze. In this step, Maria wanted
to find out two things. First, who's most likely to
own a video gaming system? Second, where are these people most likely to see
an advertisement? Maria, first discovered that
people between the ages of 18 and 34 are most likely to make video
game related purchases. She could confirm that Anywhere Gaming Repair's
target audience was people 18-34 years old. This was who they should
be trying to reach. With this in mind, Maria then learned that
both TV commercials and podcasts are very popular with people in the
target audience. Because Maria knew
Anywhere Gaming Repair had a limited budget and understanding the high
cost of TV commercials, her recommendation
was to advertise in podcasts because they are
more cost-effective. Now that she had her analysis, it was time for Maria to share her recommendation so the company could make a data
driven decision. She summarized her results using clear and compelling
visuals of the analysis. This helped her stakeholders understand the solution
to the original problem. Finally, Anywhere Gaming
Repair took action, they worked with a local
podcast production agency to create a 30 second ad
about their services. The ad ran on podcast for
a month, and it worked. They saw an increase in customers after just
the first week. By the end of week 4, they had 85 new
customers. There you go. Effective problem solving using data analysis phases in action. Now, you've seen
how the six phases of data analysis can
be applied to problem solving and how you can use that to solve real world problems.