I'm Nikki and I
manage the education, evaluation, assessment,
and research team. My favorite part of the data
analysis process is finding the hardest problem and asking a million questions about it and seeing if it's even
possible to get an answer. One of the problems that
we've tackled here at Google is our Noogler
onboarding program, which is how we
onboard new hires. One of the things that we've
done is ask the question, how do we know whether or not Nooglers are
onboarding faster through our new
onboarding program than our old onboarding program
where we used to lecture them. We worked really closely with
the content providers to understand just exactly what does it mean to onboard
someone faster? Once we asked all the questions, what we did is we prepared the data by understanding who was the population of the new
hires that we were examining. We prepared our data by going through and understanding
who our populations were, by understanding who
our sample set was, who our control group was, who our experiment group was, where were our data sources, and make sure that it
was in a set, in a format that was clean and digestible for us to write the
proper scripts for. So the next step for us was to process the data to
make sure that it was in a format that we could
actually analyze in SQL, making sure that was
in the right format, in the right columns, and in the right tables for us. To analyze the data, we wrote scripts in SQL and
in R to correlate the data to the control group or
the experiment group and interpret the
data to understand, were there any changes in the behavioral
indicators that we saw? Once we analyze all the data, we want to report on it in a way that our stakeholders
could understand. Depending on who our
stakeholders were, we prepared reports, dashboards and presentations, and shared
that information out. Once all of our
reports were complete, we saw really positive
results and decided to act on it by continuing our project-based learning
onboarding program. It was really satisfying to
know that we have the data to support it and that
it really, really worked. And not just that the data was there, but that we knew
that our students were learning and that
they were more productive, faster back on their jobs.