Hey, welcome back. Whether you're organizing
your personal data for your own use or organizing
project data for work, there are certain procedures
you want to follow to make sure your data is
easy to find and use. In this video, we'll cover some best organization practices and also check out
some different ways project data can be organized. There are plenty of
best practices you can use when organizing data, including naming
conventions, foldering, and archiving older files. We've talked about
file naming before, which is also known as
naming conventions. These are consistent guidelines that describe the content, date, or version of
a file in its name. Basically, this means
you want to use logical and descriptive names for your files to make them
easier to find and use. Speaking of easily
finding things, organizing your files
into folders helps keep project-related files
together in one place. This is called foldering. For example, all the files
related to your vacation plan might go in the
Vacation2025 folder. You might then break that
folder down even further by creating subfolders like
itinerary or photos, depending on what else you'd
like to easily access. It can also be useful
to move old projects to a separate location to create an archive and cut
down on clutter. It's so much easier
to find and use my files when I name them something meaningful
and searchable and when I organize
them into folders. It makes all my data more
accessible and useful. In addition to these
three best practices, there are two more things
you'll want to consider when organizing
data for work use. First, the project data
you'll be using for work could be accessed and
used by multiple people. It's important to align your naming and
storage practices with your team to avoid any confusion. Your team might also develop metadata practices like creating a file that outlines project naming conventions
for easy reference. We'll get to talk more
about naming conventions for work files in
more detail later. Secondly, you want to think
about how often you're making copies of data and
storing it in different places. Most importantly, because
if data is stored in lots of different
databases or spreadsheets, it can contradict itself and
lead to mistakes later on. Also storing data in multiple places takes
up a lot of space. Relational databases
can help you avoid data duplication and store
your data more efficiently. You can use these
practices to organize data in different ways
according to your project. Let's look at some examples
of data organization. I have some sample
project folders here, each organized in a
slightly different way. Let's open them up and
see what they look like. We'll start with the
high-level Finances folder. The Finances folder has been
organized categorically. There are subfolders like budget, invoices, and payroll that represent
different categories. Let's click on "Invoices"
to see what's in there. In the invoices folder, you can see that we
have another set of subfolders labeled by year, 2014, 2015.... Looks like these are in
chronological order. Sometimes the way files
are organized can tell us how the data within those
files is also organized. Let's open a file to
see if that's right. In the 2014 subfolder, there's a file with
invoices from June. If we open it, we can see that they've
been organized by date, just like the folders. There's different
ways to organize data depending on
what you need it for. The categorical organization
of the subfolders and finances made it easy for me to go straight
to the invoices, but the chronological
organization of the invoices subfolder can help us find financial data from the exact date
we're looking for. There's other ways to
organize data too: in order of importance
or even by location. For example, a company might use hierarchical organization so
that employee data mirrors the structure of their employee
organization. Or a company working with geographical data might choose to
organize by location. It's a good idea to take time early on in a project
to consider what the best organization
methods will be for you and your
team to stick to. Here's another way
to think about it. Unorganized data is
like a messy room. It's overwhelming,
hard to find anything in, and gets worse the longer
you avoid cleaning it up. But by making sure early on you know where
to put your files, you can keep your
work data organized, easy to use, and error free. Now that you see how
important it is to keep data organized for both
personal and work use, we'll take a closer
look at file naming conventions and how they carry
over into your databases. See you in the next video.