Hey again. So you've heard
me mention the idea of using meaningful and logical file names to help organize your data. But using consistent
file names can also streamline or even automate
your analysis process, saving you time and
energy in the long run. When you use
consistent guidelines that describe the content, date, or version of
a file and its name, you're using file
naming conventions. As we've already discovered, these file naming conventions
help us organize, access, process, and
analyze our data. So here are some general
tips on creating file naming conventions that are
both logical and functional. Here's some quick
file naming Do's. Work out your conventions
early to avoid having to spend time
redoing it later. Align your file naming with
your team and make sure your file names are meaningful with references to
the project name, creation date, revision version, or any other useful information needed to understand
what's in that file. Now, there's some other
simple things you can do to make sure your file naming
conventions are on point. First of all, you want to keep your file name short and sweet. They're supposed to be quick reference points that
tell you what's in a file. From earlier videos, we know
that we want to include dates and revision
numbers in our file names. I recommend formatting
it by year, month, and day because that follows the international
date standard. Different countries have
different date conventions, so keep that in mind. When you include
revision numbers in a file name, lead with a zero, so that if you run into
double digits of revisions, it's already built
into your conventions. Another good rule
is to use hyphens, underscores, or
capitalized letters instead of using spaces. Spaces and special characters might not be recognized
by your software. Plus avoiding spaces definitely makes it easier to work in SQL. My last bit of advice: create a text file that lays out all your naming
conventions on a project. This is really helpful if
someone new joins your team, or if you just need
a quick reminder while you're working
on something. We talked about this earlier
when we covered metadata, which is data about data. It helps explain what data there is and how it's being organized. When you use consistent, meaningful file naming conventions
throughout your project, your data will be
easy to find and use, and you can save
yourself time, too. Up next, we'll keep looking at spreadsheets and we'll talk about security features and how you can use them to
protect your data now that it's organized.
See you there.