Hi and welcome back. Recently we've been
learning about formulas. Sometimes data
analysts encounter a problem with our formulas
and we get an error. We've all been there and
it can be frustrating. But there are solutions, that's what we're going
to explore in this video. One error you may encounter
is the DIV error. The DIV error happens when a
formula is trying to divide a value in a cell by zero
or by an empty cell. In this spreadsheet, the percentage
Complete values in column C are calculated by dividing the values in the Tasks Completed column by the values in the
Required Tasks column. Notice that column C is already formatted
as a percentage. The DIV error is in
cell C4 because we're dividing by zero the
value in cell A4. To avoid this problem, we can have this spreadsheet automatically enter
not applicable whenever a cell in column A contains a zero that
would cause the error. To do this, we'll use
the IFERROR function. If it encounters a DIV error caused by a cell that
contains the zero, the phrase "Not applicable"
will be inserted. We can also copy the formula
to the rest of the cells in column C so it checks for any other cells that
contain a zero. Now let's move on to ERROR. In Google Sheets, ERROR tells us the formula can't be interpreted as it is input. This is also known
as a parsing error. Say we want to
tally the number of total tasks in column B and C, we use the SUM function, but the formula
equal sum B2 to B6, C2 to C6 causes an error. Examining it more closely, we see that a comma
is missing between the cell ranges B2
to B6 and C2 to C6. We can fix this by inserting
a comma between the cell ranges to indicate the
end of each data item. This is called a delimiter, which you will learn
more about soon. Now, the formula can correctly calculate the total
number of tasks as 25. Another type of error is N/A. The N/A error tells
you that the data in your formula can't be
found by the spreadsheet. Generally, this means
the data doesn't exist. This error most often occurs when using functions
such as VLOOKUP, which searches for a
certain value in a column to return a corresponding
piece of information. Here, we see a master list
of nuts and their prices. Using VLOOKUP, the spreadsheet
finds prices in the list, then calculates the prices for each store using the
assigned markup. But we have a N/A error
in cells B49 and C49. The VLOOKUP formula is correct, so what's going on? Well, if we look carefully
at the name of the nut, "almond" has no match
in the lookup table, the lookup table uses the
plural "almonds" instead. So we change almond to almonds, and with that typo fixed, the right prices are filled in. Speaking of typos, sometimes a typo can cause a NAME error. A NAME error can happen when a formula's name isn't
recognized or understood. Suppose we see a NAME error in the nut prices spreadsheet. If we look carefully, the VLOOKUP function in cell
B21 is spelled incorrectly, it has one extra O; this causes a NAME error for both the price and the resulting markup
calculation for the store. To fix this error, we can delete the
extra O in VLOOKUP. Perfect. Sometimes an error is caused by inconsistent
or wrong data. For instance, the NUM
error tells us that a formula's calculation can't be performed as
specified by the data. The data doesn't make sense
for that calculation. Here's what I mean. Suppose we're working on a large construction
project using a spreadsheet to track how many months it takes
to reach key milestones. We can use the
DATEDIF function to calculate the number of months between start and end dates. The function requires
the start date to be in the first cell referenced and the end date to be in the second
cell referenced. In our case, cells B2
and C2 respectively. The M represents months, as we want this spreadsheet
to calculate the number of months between our
start and end dates. But we get a NUM
error in cell D6. We notice that the end date
comes before the start date, so the DATEDIF function can't calculate the
number of months between. It's likely the
start and end dates were interchanged by accident. We can request verification
of the data to make sure. In the meantime, let's
reverse the order of the cells in the formula to temporarily get
around the error. Now, the result is nine months. What if the client's
name was accidentally inserted into the start
date in the spreadsheet? You guessed it, we get an error. The VALUE error can indicate a problem with a formula
or referenced cells. It's often not clear right
away what the problem is, so this error might take a
little more effort to fix. In this case, John Welty was
input as the start date, making the calculation
impossible for the DATEDIF function
in the cell D6. We just replace the
text, John Welty, with the correct start date
of September 1st, 2016. Last is the REF error, which often comes
up when cells being referenced in a formula
have been deleted, thus making the formula unable to perform the calculation. Here's a spreadsheet
used to calculate the number of seats available
for a company lunch. Let's say the company decided not to run
the second floor, so we delete row 4. This results in a REF error when calculating the total seats
available in cell B5. To fix this, we can
change the formula to add the values in
cells B2 and B3. Also, in this case, we could have prevented the REF error by using
the SUM function and a range of cells
instead of adding the cell value by
direct reference. Now, if we delete row 10, the SUM function
calculates the total seats available. There you go. We've now fixed some of the most common
spreadsheet errors. When you see them again, you'll know what they mean. Troubleshooting is a big
part of data analysis, so being able to find solutions is a key skill for
data analysts.