My name is Andrew. I am a Senior
Developer Advocate on the ethical AI research
group at Google. As an analyst, there's quite a few things you can
do as you're evaluating your dataset in
order to ensure that you're looking at it through
the various ethical lenses. One of it is being
to self-reflect and understand what it is that you're doing and the impact that it has. The best way to challenge that
is to question who we are. We being, like, okay, we
in this team are trying to build this
because we think that that's going to help improve
this product or that's going to help inform decisions about
what we want to do next. Think about not just those that sit
laterally next to you, but also think about those
that are represented in this dataset and those that aren't represented
in this dataset, and then use that intuition to then continue to
question the integrity, the quality, the representation that is
present in that dataset. And then also, think about
the various harms and risks associated with
the work that you're doing. For example, if you think that you'll benefit from
keeping the dataset longer, you may want to also understand what's the risk of
holding onto this dataset? What's the potential
harm that could arise if you continue
to look at the dataset and continue to store it and continue to retrieve this data? And going beyond that, also understanding what's
the consent process like. Are you informing those that
you're collecting data from how it's going to be used? What's the communication
channel like? Putting on the various
ethical lenses, taking a more nuanced
approach to your analysis, being cognizant of all
the possible risks and harms that can arise when not just analyzing
your dataset, but also presenting your dataset. How you portray the results, how they're being used in
the decision-making process, whether you are presenting
this to management, or presenting this to executives, or presenting this to
a larger audience. All of that matters in the responsible
use of the dataset. But as a data analyst, you stand in the
intersection between the very people that
will stand to benefit from the technology
that's being developed and those in your
organization that are trying to make a more
informed decision as to whether or not to
move forward with the productionization
of the technology. It may feel like there's a lot of weight there, and there is, but it's also very
pivotal, and it speaks to the volume of the
impact of your work.