Earlier, I told you that you already have
analytical skills. You just might not know it yet. When learning new
things, sometimes people overlook their own skills, but it's important you take the time to acknowledge them, especially since these skills
are going to help you as a data analyst. In fact, you're probably more
prepared than you think. Don't believe me? Well, let me prove it. Let's start by defining what I'm talking about here. Analytical skills are
qualities and characteristics associated with solving
problems using facts. There are a lot of aspects
to analytical skills, but, we'll focus on
five essential points. They are curiosity,
understanding context, having technical mindset, data
design, and data strategy. Now, you may be thinking, "I don't have these
kinds of skills," or "I only have a couple of them." But stay with me, and I bet
you'll change your mind. Let's start with curiosity. Curiosity is all about
wanting to learn something. Curious people usually seek out new challenges and experiences. This leads to knowledge. The very fact that you're
here with me right now demonstrates that
you have curiosity. That was an easy one. Now think about
understanding context. Context is the condition in which something
exists or happens. This can be a structure
or an environment. A simple way of
understanding context is by counting to 5. One, two, three, four, five. All of those numbers exist in the context of one through five. But what if a friend of yours said to you, one, two, four, five, three? Well, the three will
be out of context. Simple, right? But it can
be a little tricky. There's a good chance that
you might not even notice the three being out of context if you aren't paying
close attention. That's why listening and trying to understand the full
picture is critical. In your own life, you put things into context all the time. For example, let's think
about your grocery list. If you group together
items like flour, sugar, and yeast, that's you adding
context to your groceries. This saves you time when you're at the baking
aisle at the grocery store. Let's look at another example. Have you ever shuffled a deck of cards and noticed the joker? If you're playing a game
that doesn't include jokers, identifying that card means you understand it's
out of context. Remove it, and you're much more likely to play
a successful game. Now we know you have
both curiosity and the ability to
understand context. Let's move on to the third
skill, a technical mindset. A technical mindset
involves the ability to break things down into
smaller steps or pieces and work with them in an
orderly and logical way. For instance, when
paying your bills, you probably already break down the process into smaller steps. Maybe you start by sorting them by the date they're due. Next, you might add them up and compare that amount to the
balance in your bank account. This would help you see if
you can pay your bills now, or if you should wait
until the next paycheck. Finally, you'd pay them. When you take something that
seems like a single task, like paying your bills, and break it into smaller steps with an orderly process, that's using a technical mindset. Now let's explore the fourth part of an analytical skill set, data design. Data design is
how you organize information. As a data analyst, design typically has to do
with an actual database. But, again, the same skills can easily
be applied to everyday life. For example, think about the way you organize the
contacts in your phone. That's actually a
type of data design. Maybe you list them by
first name instead of last, or maybe you use email addresses
instead of their names. What you're really doing
is designing a clear, logical list that
lets you call or text a contact in a
quick and simple way. The last, but
definitely not least, the fifth and final element of analytical skills
is data strategy. Data strategy is the
management of the people, processes, and tools
used in data analysis. Let's break that down. You manage people
by making sure they know how to use the right data to find solutions to the
problem you're working on. For processes, it's
about making sure the path to that solution
is clear and accessible. For tools, you make sure the right technology is
being used for the job. Now, you may be
doubting my ability to give you an example from real life that demonstrates
data strategy. But check this out.
Imagine mowing a lawn. Step 1 would be reading the
owner's manual for the mower. That's making sure the
people involved, or you, in this example, know how
to use the data available. The manual would
instruct you to put on protective eyewear
and closed-toe shoes. Then, it's on to step 2: making the process, the
path, clear and accessible. This will involve you
walking around the lawn, picking up large sticks or rocks that might get in your way. Finally, for step 3, you check the lawn
mower, your tool, to make sure it has
enough gas and oil, and is in working condition, so the lawn can be mowed safely. There you have it. Now you know the five essential skills
of a data analyst. Curiosity, understanding context, having a technical mindset, data design, and data strategy. I told you that you are
already an analytical thinker. Now, you can start actively
practicing these skills as you move through the
rest of this course. Curious about what's next? Move on to the next video.