In this video, we'll discuss the different places
data analysts go to connect with data. There's all kinds
of data out there and it's important to
know how to access it. Earlier, you learn that there
are two basic types of data used by data analysts:
internal and external. Internal data is data that lives within a
company's own systems. It's typically also generated
from within the company. You may also hear internal data described as primary data. External data is
data that lives and is generated outside
an organization. It can come from a variety of places, including
other businesses, government sources, the media, professional associations,
schools, and more. External data is sometimes
called secondary data. Gathering internal data
can be complicated. Depending on your data
analytics project, you might need data from lots of different sources
and departments, including sales, marketing, customer
relationship management, finance, human resources,
and even the data archives. But the effort is worth it. Internal data has plenty of
advantages for a business. It provides information that's relevant to problems
you're trying to solve, and it's free to access because the company
already owns it. With internal data,
analysts can work on all data projects without ever looking beyond
their own walls. But sometimes internal data doesn't give you
the full picture. In those cases, data
analysts can turn to external data and apply that information
to their analysis. For instance, as
health care analysts, we often partner with other healthcare organizations
or nonprofits and use their data to create deeper analyses and add some more industry-
level perspective. In an earlier video, you learned that
openness has created a lot of data for analysts to use, largely through open
data initiatives. As a reminder, openness or open data refers to
the free access, usage and sharing of data. For example, the United
States government makes hundreds of thousands
of data sets available to the
public on Data.gov. These data sets contain
information on weather patterns, educational progress,
crime rates, transportation, and much more. There are lots of reasons for these open data initiatives. One is to make government
activities more transparent, like letting the public
see where money is spent. It also helps educate citizens about voting
and local issues. Open data also improves public
service by giving people ways to be a part
of public planning or provide feedback
to the government. Finally, open data
leads to innovation and economic growth by helping people and companies better
understand their markets. Google actually hosts lots of public databases with
information on science, transportation, economics,
climate, and more. As an example, a
bike sharing company could use traffic
data from within our public
transportation database to see where the
roads are busiest, then choose those locations for their bikes in order to reduce cars on the road and give people another
transportation option. Now you're familiar with
internal and external data and how you can access both. Coming up, we'll learn how
to import all the data you collect from different
sources into a spreadsheet.