[MUSIC] So now that you know what not to do, I'm going to walk you through how
I would tackle a presentation. So to start, you can see the title slide,
it's a lot simpler. We have a title, we have who is
presenting, and we have when it occurred. Now, I do want to talk a little
bit about the date at the bottom, which is an important factor that
you shouldn't forget to include. You may come back to this presentation
a few months later, even a year later or this may be disseminated
across your company. It's important to know when
this analysis took place, and why, and
what were the circumstances of it? And the big part of that is, what were the
circumstances of the company at the time that this was actually presented? So the next slide is giving
an idea of what you're going to be presenting to everyone and when. So you start with your purpose statement. What you're going to be discussing,
what are we talking about? The next aspect is,
where you actually tell your story. And that's an important concept is this
overall presentation is a story with data. And finally,
you have your conclusion slide. You're going to be very clear
that this is the conclusion. This is where you're going to add
recommendations if this is in a business context. And then you'll have your appendix,
where you can have additional information on data, data visuals,
as well as overall context for the presentation that may not work
within the overall flow itself. So, our transition slide,
what are we talking about? So this is where you let the audience
know what we're talking about, what are we trying to tell them? What are all the slides that are following
this going to be driving towards? So when we look at this slide, I'm trying
to identify if there are geographic, demographic, and/or economic factors
that contribute to a happier life. That is the purpose of
the overall presentation. So everybody now in the room knows
this and that is what they're going to be thinking about as you
present all of the data to them. Next section on our table of contents,
present the data. It is important to mention these
will probably have different titles as you build them out, but
this is the topic that we're moving into. So you'll recognize this visual
from the messy slide, but it has a different color context. That's not as important but
what is important is when you get here, you have a title on the slide,
you have a visual, but there is no text. And this is an important aspect to it
is what we're trying to do is walk and introduce the audience to the overall
data that you're going to be using. Now, this is the first slide that
has any form of content on it, so it's important that you introduce
them to the underlying data. And seeing as the data is all about
geographic, demographic, and economic data points per each country, it's
important that the visual represents that. If I were to be the presenter on a slide
like this, I would start by getting to this slide and explaining the process and
data that we're looking at. So, we analyzed the data set,
consisting of data collected from residents of European countries
between 2015 and 2017. The data contained demographic and
economic data for individuals within each country,
including population, GDP, or Gross Domestic Product, and
the happiness score per person. So I've now introduced
them to the data set. There's still no text, so they know that
they should be looking at the visual and listening to me. Now the next aspect which
can be over utilized but I've also seen underutilized is using
animations in your presentation. Animations can be used as a way to direct
your audience's attention as you speak. A way to say, look over here at this
area of the slide as I'm talking. It also allows them not
to get too bogged down or distracted as you're introducing
new concepts to them. Because remember, as you're introducing data the technical
components may be new to a lot of people. And finally, another way to do this is
through annotations on top of visuals that can be used as another form of directing
their gaze and their overall attention. So putting these together, we can have something like an annotation
appear as you're discussing it. So, if we were trying to explain
what the visual is showing, we have an annotation that pops
up that says "happiness score" and points to the score within
the specific country, and we can explain exactly
what the visual is showing. So in this way,
we could say something like, we began by creating a heat map of
the happiness score for each country. Where the number within each country
represents the overall score and the colors represent how high or
how low the score is on a scale. So, the darker blue the country is, the higher the numeric happiness score for
that country. The deeper red that the country is, the lower the happiness score and
overall numeric value. So what we've done before any text
has appeared on the screen is explain the visual, explain the overall data that they're going to be looking
at throughout the presentation, so that they now can understand when
we dive into this specific analysis. So it's important that you only use
text on the screen in a short and concise manner to highlight the main
points that you're discussing. So after I introduce the visual,
I can now dive into the analysis. So, we have our first bullet point:
Happiness levels vary widely by country. So with this as it appears, my speaker
notes can be something along the lines of: "However, as high and low scores are
spread sporadically throughout the map, there is little correlation that we
find between geographical location and happiness. Finally, we concluded that
the geographical location alone was not a strong indicator of happiness." So as you can see as I'm discussing and as I'm explaining what we
are looking at within the data, the overall text on the screen only
populated as I began to discuss it, so the audience knew
exactly where to look and exactly what to be listening
to when I'm talking. A very important aspect of the flow of
the overall presentation is the transition from one slide to the next. So as I'm discussing this,
you can use a bullet point, you can use your speaker notes. Either way, there should be some
transition from one slide to the next so that the audience knows that this part is
over and they know what's coming next. So, for this slide,
I used my speaker notes. So I'm going to explain the transition,
something like: "Our next step was to identify the demographic and economic
differences between the higher and lower countries to isolate
the correlated features between them." So, we get to the next slide. Very common theme, it may be a different
visual, but the overall title and where the text is going to show up
is going to be in the same place. So we familiarize them with the overall
theme of the presentation within three slides. Now, the title immediately tells
what we're going to be discussing. The previous one was geographic;
this one is all based on population. As we move through this slide and
as you saw in the messy example, we use a lot of scatterplots, and scatterplots may not always be
the best option because they are rather difficult for
people to follow within presentations. But if you explain it to them once so
that they understand, you can use them throughout the
presentation because you familiarize them. So, because it's the first
time it popped up, it's important that you explain the visual
in-depth and all the features of it that you will be talking about later
throughout the presentation. We use animations again. We talk about what are the axes
on the scatterplot. We created a scatterplot in which we
plotted countries based on their happiness score and the population to see if there
was a correlation between the two. The higher up something is on the
scatterplot, the happier the country is. The further to the right that the country
is plotted, the larger the population. And the line that goes between
the two is testing for correlation or if these two different points
are related to one another. So these annotations and these animations are there to
clarify what the chart is plotting. Now, the overall purpose is that
we are attempting to identify if there is a relationship between
the population size of the country and the overall happiness score. So, now that you have
explained what this visual is, you can now dive into the results of it. Now this slide itself
has one bullet point. It is the results of the overall
analysis that you can find just based on the data visual. We found that there was little to no
correlation between happiness and population based on
the analysis that we ran. So all discussion and
in-depth explanation of the visual is kept in the speaking notes
besides the overall annotations. And again, the transition is very
important to the next slide. So, you can say something like: "So next,
we dove into the specific demographics of each country to see if we can identify
the features that separate or correlate with the overall
happiness of the country." Again, same thing. We have the title, we know what
we're going to be talking about now. This is how the health of each country and
how it correlates with happiness. We have a scatterplot again, except the
good news is, you've already introduced what the scatterplot is and
what you are comparing on there. So now the audience has been
familiarized with the data set. You don't have to go through and explain
exactly what the visual is representing. You can dive into
the overall differences or analysis that you're going to
be presenting on this slide. You can have something explaining
that we found a positive correlation between happiness and health, or
overall life expectancy of the country. Now we found this because
the correlation coefficient between the two different factors being
happiness and health was 0.50. Now, you just introduced a new concept. This is where you have to now explain
the new concept because otherwise you may lose people in the room. This is a technical component
to your overall analysis and it is an important component so it is
critical that you do explain what it is, but in a simplified way so
that everybody understands. So, you can say something along the lines
of: "A correlation coefficient is a measure of strength and direction of the linear
relationship between two variables. So in other words,
the closer to one that the number is, the more positively correlated they are. Meaning, when one of the variables
goes up, so does the other one. The closer to negative
one that the number is, the more negatively correlated they are. Meaning, as one of the variables,
such as happiness, goes up that the other variable
like health would go down. And the closer to zero it is,
it means they are not correlated at all, which is what we saw between
population and happiness, and means that they have
no relationship together." So we've now explained exactly
what it is that we use as an analysis on this specific slide. And it's important again that we
discuss the transition to the next. So: "We did find that there is a positive
correlation between happiness and health, but the question remains, are happy people
healthy or are healthy people happy? We know that they are related but
we don't know what causes the other. And finally, what contributes
to a longer life expectancy? If we know that longer life
expectancy is related to happiness, what is it that helps create longer
life expectancy within a country?" Now these are the two questions that
we need to answer before the end of the presentation moving on from here. So again, we are creating a logical flow
as we move through this presentation. Now, we are looking at a new concept:
wealth within each country. Now that you are using such
as the scatterplot are familiar with the audience, it's okay
now that you add in additional ones. So, you can say something
along the lines of: "We then analyzed how GDP or
the overall economic status of the country relates to
the overall health of the country. Because if we know that GDP is related to
health and we know that health is related to happiness, then we can infer
additional information through that. So, we found that there is a strong
correlation between gross domestic product and the overall health of a specific country
with a 0.7 correlation coefficient, so higher than the overall correlation
coefficient for health and happiness. Next we found an even stronger
correlation between GDP and happiness. So, whereas we first looked at health and
happiness and then GDP and health, we're now looking at GDP and happiness and
found that it has the highest correlation coefficient between
all three of those comparisons. So we have a conclusion within
just this slide, which is, we found that richer countries have
a higher average happiness level." This is a good transition to
the overall conclusion of now your entire presentation. So again, you're directing your audience
through just presenting the text that you want them to look at. Your first conclusion from
your overall presentation. Wealthier countries and ones that have
sustained economic growth tend to have a higher average happiness level. Your second conclusion: healthier countries also tend
to have a happier population. However, healthier countries
also tend to be wealthy. And finally,
this is where you take it home. So our evidence suggests that wealth,
health, and happiness all go together. It's important to also discuss any
caveats or future analysis that needs to be ran to answer the questions
that may come up based on this analysis. "So we have said that the evidence
suggests that wealth, health, and happiness all go together, but that
does not mean that one causes the other, So there needs to be future analysis
to understand any causal effects between them." And then you have your final slide, and
this is where questions would come in. So it's important to remember
that data storytelling is an art. What we've given you is some high-level
overview and examples of what not to do and an improved version, but
don't be afraid to put yourself in there. The overall presentation style is going
to come from your personality and skill set within data analytics. You can use the tools that we use to help
you build the layout of your presentation, but it's up to you to really put a lot
of yourself into it, and a lot of your own skills to help people understand
the overall analytics that you've run. [SOUND]