Hello again. So far, you've seen how
data can be gathered and analyzed to solve all
kinds of problems. Next step, we're going to learn all
about databases. As a refresher, a database is a collection of data
stored in a computer system, but storage is just the beginning. You'll discover how databases
make it possible to find the exact piece of information
you need for your analysis. You'll also learn how to sort data in
order to zoom in on what you need to generate insightful reports
and much more. Then we'll go even deeper, and
I mean really, really deep. I'm talking about metadata. You've probably heard someone say,
wow that's so meta. Usually they're talking about something
referencing back to itself or being completely self aware. For example if a character in a book
knows she's in a book, that's meta. If you make a documentary about making
documentaries, that's also meta. And here at Google, I constantly
analyze how I analyze data. That's definitely meta. I do that to give my work a quality
check to make sure my methods are fair. And to be certain that I'm paying
attention to any biases that might affect the outcome. As an analyst, you should do this too. Sometimes we get a little
too close to our data. So stepping back and asking ourselves
if our processes make sense is key. But let's back up just a bit and
define metadata. Metadata is data about data. Like I said: deep. Metadata is extremely important
when working with databases. Think of it like a reference guide. Without the guide all you have is a bunch of data with
no context explaining what it means. Metadata tells you where the data comes
from, when and how it was created, and what it's all about. Up next, you'll learn how to take data
from a database or another source and bring it into a spreadsheet. You'll do this either by
importing it directly or by using SQL to generate the request. And once you have data in a spreadsheet,
the possibilities are endless. Everything we're about to cover is a very
important part of the prepare phase of the data analysis process. It's how data analysts figure out
which kind of data is going to be most helpful to them. If you have the right data, you're much more likely to be able to
solve your business problems successfully. So, ready to tap into
the incredible power of databases? Let's go!