What do companies in e-commerce, entertainment, healthcare,
manufacturing, marketing, finance, tech, and hundreds of other
industries all have in common? You guessed it,
they all use data. Organizations of all kinds need data analysts to help them
improve their processes, identify opportunities
and trends, launch new products, provide
great customer service, and make thoughtful decisions. Hi, I'm Tony, a program manager at Google and a data
analyst myself. I like to welcome you to the Google Data
Analytics Certificate. Now, there are lots of great reasons to
earn this certificate. Maybe you're thinking
about starting a career in the exciting
world of data analytics, or maybe you're just fascinated by the power of data as I am. No matter what brought you here, you're in the right place
to kick-start a career and learn industry-relevant
skills in data analytics. But first, what exactly is data? Well, I'll like to say that data is a collection of facts. This collection can
include numbers, pictures, videos, words, measurements,
observations, and more. Once you have data, analytics puts it to work through analysis. Data analysis is the
collection, transformation, and organization of data in
order to draw conclusions, make predictions, and drive
informed decision-making. And it doesn't stop there. Data evolves over time which means this analysis or analytics, as we call it, can give us new information throughout
data's entire life cycle. Data is everywhere. You use and create data everyday. Have you ever read
reviews of a product before deciding whether
or not to buy it? That's data analysis. Or maybe you wear a
fitness tracker to count your steps so you can stay
active throughout the day. That's data analysis. But you don't just use data. You also create huge amounts
of it every single day. Any time you use your phone, look up something
online, stream music, shop with a credit card, post on social media or use GPS to map a route,
you're creating data. Our digital world and the millions of smart
devices inside of it have made the amount of data available truly mind-blowing. Here at Google we
process more than 40,000 searches every second. That's 3.5 billion searches a day and 1.2 trillion
searches every year. Here's another way
to think about it. YouTube has almost
two billion users. If YouTube users
made up a country, it would be the
largest in the world. All of that data is transforming
the world around us. The publication The
Economist recently called data the world's
most valuable resource. It's easy to see why data analysts are so valued
by their organizations. What exactly does
a data analyst do? Put simply, a data analyst
is someone who collects, transforms, and organizes data in order to help make
informed decisions. Besides the role itself, one of the most
exciting parts of being a data analyst is the number
of opportunities available. The demand for data
analysts is greater than the number of qualified people to fill these job openings. This certificate program is a great first step in your journey to finding
a job you love. Data analysts come from many different
backgrounds and have all kinds of life experiences. You don't need decades
of work experience or an expensive education
to get started. Many data analysts
taught themselves the skills they needed
to land their first job, just like you're doing right now. Now let's talk more about
what you're going to learn. The Google Data Analytics
Certificate is split into courses based on different
processes for data analysis. Those are ask, prepare, process, analyze, share, and act. Plan to watch these
videos in order. Each one covers a new topic and every topic builds on what
you've learned before, making it easy to
track your progress. You're in the driver's seat. Even though you might see
things organized by weeks, everything can be completed
at your own pace. So you decide how much
you want to do each day. By the end of the program, you'll take everything you've
learned and turn it into a project that you can use
to show off your skills, and wow hiring managers
at your job interviews. Now along the way you'll
also hear from Googlers. That's what we call people
who work here at Google. They'll give you an inside look at what it's like to work in our industry and share personal stories of how
they got into the field. They'll also give you
some excellent tips on how to land your dream job. Stay tuned. Some
of them are going to introduce themselves
in just a sec. I'm Angie. I'm a program manager of engineering at Google. I truly believe that cleaning data is the heart
and soul of data. It's how you get
to know your data, its quirks, its
flaws, its mysteries. I love a good mystery. It felt like a superpower almost. I was a detective and I had gone in there and I'd really
solved something. Hi, I'm Alex. I'm a research
scientist at Google. I research the
different impacts of artificial intelligence
on society and our users. My name is Lilah Jones. I'm a part of our cloud team. I get a chance to lead a team of amazing individuals that are focused on helping
customers get to the cloud. Hi, I'm Evan. I'm a learning portfolio
manager here at Google. I have one of the coolest jobs in the world where I get to look at all the different
technologies that affect big data and then work them into training courses like this
one for students to take. I'll be your instructor
for the first course. I'll take you through
each module that will cover a specific topic
in a few different ways. You'll have videos, reading
materials, quizzes, hands-on activities, and
discussion prompts for you to chat about with other
students in an online forum. I'm really excited to be guiding
you through this course, but I'm especially excited that you've chosen
this adventure. Lifelong learning is something that I'm very passionate about. Growing up, when I looked around, I often didn't see many
options available to me. It wasn't until I started getting serious about my education that I realized I had the control to make
my own opportunities with education being the key
that would open those doors. The more I learned and
the harder I worked, the more possibilities opened up. Had I not gone after that knowledge and continued
challenging myself, I may not be where I am today. Learning allowed me to grow
personally, be successful, visit places I would
never have seen, and meet people I would
never have known. Now I'm going to introduce
some of those great people. Hello, I'm Ximena,
financial analyst. I'll be helping you learn how to ask the right
questions about data, the project you work on and the problems you're
trying to solve. Hey, my name is Hallie,
analytical lead. I'm so excited to show you how to prepare your data so
it's ready for analysis. Hello, I'm Sally, measurement
and analytical lead. Together we'll cover how to
process and clean your data. Cleaning data doesn't
require soap and water. I'm talking about making
sure your data is complete, correct, and relevant to the problem you're
trying to solve. Hey, I'm Ayanna, global
insights manager. We'll be digging into analysis. You'll learn how to
collect, transform, and organize data so that you can use it to discover
useful information, draw conclusions, and
make great decisions. My name's Kevin and with my experience as Director
of analytics at Google, I'll guide you through
what I think is the most exciting part of the data analysis process: plan, create, and present effective and compelling
data visualizations. Hello, my name is Carrie. I can't wait to tell you about all the exciting things you can do with the programming
language R. Are you ready? Hi, I'm Rishie, Global analytics skills
curriculum manager. I'm going to help you bring together everything
you learned during this program by creating a case study that will
dazzle any hiring manager. Just like the capstone of a great building shows
everyone that it's complete, your case study will signify your own great
achievement of earning a Google certificate
in data analytics. Okay, are you getting excited about the potential of
becoming a data analyst? So much is possible with data. You're about to enter
a whole new world. Ready? Let's go.