Now that you understand all the phases of
the data life cycle, it's time to move on to the
phases of data analysis. They sound similar, but
are two different things. Data analysis isn't a life cycle. It's the process
of analyzing data. Coming up, we'll
look at each step of the data analysis process and how it will relate to your
work as a data analyst. Even this program is designed
to follow these steps. Understanding these
connections will help guide your own analysis and your
work in this program. You've already learned that
this program is modeled after the stages of the
data analysis process. This program is
split into courses, six of which are based upon
the steps of data analysis: ask, prepare, process,
analyze, share, and act. Let's start with
the first step in data analysis, the ask phase. In this phase, we do two things. We define the problem to
be solved and we make sure that we fully understand
stakeholder expectations. Stakeholders hold a
stake in the project. They are people who have invested time and resources into a project and are interested in the outcome. Let's
break that down. First, defining a problem
means you look at the current state and identify how it's different
from the ideal state. Usually there's an obstacle
we need to get rid of or something wrong
that needs to be fixed. For instance, a sports
arena might want to reduce the time fans spend
waiting in the ticket line. The obstacle is
figuring out how to get the customers to their
seats more quickly. Another important
part of the ask phase is understanding
stakeholder expectations. The first step here is to determine who the
stakeholders are. That may include your manager, an executive sponsor,
or your sales partners. There can be lots
of stakeholders. But what they all have in common is that they
help make decisions, influence actions and strategies, and have specific goals
they want to meet. They also care about the
project and that's why it's so important to
understand their expectations. For instance, if your
manager assigns you a data analysis project
related to business risk, it would be smart to confirm
whether they want to include all types of risks
that could affect the company, or just risks related to weather such as
hurricanes and tornadoes. Communicating with your
stakeholders is key in making sure you stay engaged and on track throughout
the project. So as a data analyst, developing strong
communication strategies is very important. This part of the ask phase helps you keep focused on
the problem itself, not just its symptoms. As you learned earlier, the five whys are
extremely helpful here. In an upcoming course, you'll learn how to ask
effective questions and define the problem by
working with stakeholders. You'll also cover strategies
that can help you share what you discover in a way that keeps
people interested. After that, we'll move on to the prepare step of the
data analysis process. This is where data analysts
collect and store data they'll use for the
upcoming analysis process. You'll learn more about
the different types of data and how to identify which kinds of data are most useful for solving a
particular problem. You'll also discover why
it's so important that your data and results are
objective and unbiased. In other words, any decisions
made from your analysis should always be based on facts and be fair and impartial. Next is the process step. Here, data analysts
find and eliminate any errors and inaccuracies that can get in the
way of results. This usually means cleaning data, transforming it into a
more useful format, combining two or more
datasets to make information more complete
and removing outliers, which are any data points that could skew the information. After that, you'll learn
how to check the data you prepare to make sure it's
complete and correct. This phase is all about
getting the details right. So you'll also fix typos, inconsistencies, or missing
and inaccurate data. To top it off, you'll gain strategies for verifying and sharing your data cleansing
with stakeholders. Then it's time to analyze. Analyzing the data
you've collected involves using tools to transform and organize that information so that you can draw
useful conclusions, make predictions, and drive
informed decision-making. There are lots of powerful
tools data analysts use in their work and in this course you'll learn
about two of them, spreadsheets and
structured query language, or SQL, which is often
pronounced "sequel." The next course is based
on the share phase. Here you'll learn how data analysts interpret
results and share them with others to help stakeholders make effective
data-driven decisions. In the share phase, visualization is a data
analyst's best friend. So this course will highlight
why visualization is essential to getting others to understand what your
data is telling you. With the right visuals, facts and figures become
so much easier to see and complex concepts
become easier to understand. We'll explore different
kinds of visuals and some great data
visualization tools. You'll also practice your own presentation
skills by creating compelling slideshows
and learning how to be fully prepared
to answer questions. Then we'll take a break from
the data analysis process to show you all of the really
cool things you can do with the programming language
R. You don't need to be familiar with R or programming
languages in general. Just know that R is
a popular tool for data manipulation, calculation,
and visualization. For our final data analysis
phase, we have act. This is the exciting moment when the business takes all
of the insights you, the data analyst, have provided and puts them to
work in order to solve the original business
problem and will be acting on what you've learned
throughout this program. This is when you prepare
for your job search and have the chance to
complete a case study project. It's a great opportunity
for you to bring together everything you've worked
on throughout this course. Plus adding a case study to your portfolio helps you stand out from the other
candidates when you interview for your
first data analyst job. Now you know the
different steps of the data analysis process and
how our course reflects it. You have everything you need to understand how this course works and my fellow Googlers and I will be here to guide
you every step of the way.