Regardless of what type of data analysis you're conducting, the process is
generally the same. The example that I'll
walk through is that of our employee engagement
survey, but you could imagine that this process
applies to just about any data analysis that you're going to conduct as an analyst. The first thing you
want to do is ask. You want to ask all of the right questions at the beginning of the
engagement so that you better understand what your leaders and stakeholders
need from this analysis. The types of questions that
I generally ask are around, what is the problem that
we're trying to solve? What is the purpose
of this analysis? What are we hoping
to learn from it? After you've asked all the right questions
and you've wrapped your arms around the scope of the analysis you need to conduct, the next step is to prepare. We need to be thinking
about what type of data we need to answer
those key questions. This could be anything from quantitative data or
qualitative data. It could be cross-sectional
or points in time versus longitudinal
over a long period of time. We need to be thinking
about the type of data we need in order to
answer the questions that we've set out
to answer based on what we learned when we
asked the right questions. We also need to be thinking about how we're going to
collect that data or if we need to
collect that data. It may be the case that we need to collect
this data brand-new. So we need to think
about what type of data we're going to be
collecting and how. For our employee engagement survey, we do that via survey of both quantitative and
qualitative questions. But it may actually be the
case that for many analyses, the data that you're
looking for already exist. Then it's a question of working with those data
owners to make sure that you are able to leverage that data and use it responsibly. After you've done all the hard
work to collect your data, now you need to
process that data. It begins with cleaning. This to me is the most fun part of the data analytics process. We can think of it as
the initial introduction or the handshake, hello, to your data. This is where you get a chance to understand its structure, its quirks, its nuances, and you really get a
chance to understand deeply what type of
data you're going to be working with and understanding what potential that data has to answer all of your questions. This is such an important
part, too, where we're running
through all of our quality assurance checks. For example, do we have all of the data that we
anticipated we would have? Are we missing data at
random or is it missing in a systematic way such that maybe something went wrong with our data collection effort? If needed, did we code all
of our data the right way? Are there any outliers that
we need to treat differently? This is the part
where we spend a lot of time really digging deeply into the structure and nuance of
the data to make sure that you're able to analyze it appropriately
and responsibly. After cleaning our
data and running all of our quality
assurance checks, now is the point where
we analyze our data, making sure to do so in as objective and unbiased
a way as possible. To do this, the first
thing we do is run through a series of
analyses that we've already planned
ahead of time based on the questions that we know we want to answer from the very, very beginning of the process. One thing that's probably the hardest about this
particular process, the hardest thing
about analyzing data, is that we as analysts are
trained to look for patterns. Over time as we become better
and better at our jobs, what we'll often find
is that we can start to intuit what we might
see in the data. We might have a
sneaking suspicion as to what the data
are going to tell us. This is the point where
we have to take a step back and let the data
speak for itself. As data analysts, we
are storytellers, but we also have to
keep in mind that it is not our story to tell. That story belongs to the data, and it is our job as
analysts to amplify and tell that story in as unbiased and objective
a way as possible. The next step is to share
all of the data and insights that you've
generated from your analyses. Now typically for employee
engagement survey, we start by sharing the
high-level findings with our executive team. We want them to have
a landscape view of how the organization is feeling, and we want to make sure
that there aren't any surprises as they dig deeper and deeper
into the data to understand how teams are feeling and how individual
employees are feeling. All of this work from asking the right questions
to collecting your data, to analyzing and sharing, doesn't mean much of anything if we aren't taking action
on what we've just learned. This to me is the
most critical part, especially of our employee
engagement survey. I like to say that the survey
is actually the easy part, and acting on the results is really where the
real work begins. This is where we use all of
those data-driven insights to decide what types of interventions
we want to introduce, not only at the
organizational level, but also at the
team level as well. We might find, for example, that the organization is
working on a series of interventions to help improve part of the employee experience, whereas individual teams have additional roles,
responsibilities to play, to either bolster some of
those efforts or to introduce new ones to better
meet their team where their strengths and
opportunity areas are. The data analysis
process is rigorous, but it is lengthy. I can completely appreciate
that we as data analysts, get so excited about just diving right into the data
and doing what we do best. The challenge is that if we don't work through the process
in its entirety, if we try to skip steps, we're not going to
be able to elicit the insights that
we're looking for. I absolutely love my job. I have such a deep
appreciation for data and what it can do and what type of insight
we can derive from it.