Which profession does
the best networking? The fishing industry. But in all seriousness, the work we do has everything
to do with people. Once you've learned
the skills and developed a strong portfolio, the next step is to connect with people in your profession or industry who can help you use those strengths
to build a career. In this video, we're going
to talk about networking. Networking can be called professional
relationship building. It's all about meeting
people both on and offline and building
relationships with them. Networking will help
you meet people who are similar
and different from you and also stay current with what's going on in your fields. Even within the
organization you're in, you want to network
with other teams to better understand the
projects you're working on. Here's the truth, lots of the best opportunities
aren't posted on job boards. They're out there
in the real world. Problems waiting to be solved, innovations just waiting
for inspiration. Building your network
with other data analysts could really increase your odds of breaking into the field. Actually, networking with any industry professionals
can help you do that. Here's a few things
you can start with, search for public
meetups in your area. There's usually at least
one in every major city. Just google data
analytics meetups near you or search on meetup.com. Then you can learn more
about different types of data analytics or share your interest with other
people in the field. It's also good to remember that we live in a digital world, so don't feel confined
to in-person networking. Some of the best data
analysis influencers are on social media. Follow interesting companies or thought leaders on
LinkedIn, Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram,
interact with them, and share their content. If there's a post you like, maybe leave a comment
explaining why. Digital networking can take
you anywhere these days. On top of that,
there's also plenty of great data podcasts to follow, Not only can they
help you stay up to date with how the
industry is evolving, but hearing the concepts
repeated over time, can help build your confidence
in your own knowledge. There's also a ton of blogs and online communities
like O'Reilly, Kaggle, KDnuggets, GitHub and Medium, that can help you connect
with peers and experts. The possibilities are virtually limitless when it comes
to building your network. In our next video, we'll talk about one of the most effective methods,
finding a mentor. Trust me, you don't
want to miss this.