It was Maya Angelou
for Oprah Winfrey. Steven Spielberg for JJ Abrams. And Warren Buffett
for Bill Gates. It's a mentor, and
having one can have a huge impact on your career
and your life in general. Basically, a mentor is a professional who shares
their knowledge, skills, and experience to
help you develop and grow. About 3 out of 4 people
think that having a mentor is an important part of professional development. But studies found only 37
percent actually have a mentor. As a data analyst, you're not required
to have a mentor, but those who find a good
one never forget them. Mentors come in many forms. They can be trusted
advisors, sounding boards, critics, resources
or all of the above. Sometimes the relationship
happens naturally, but usually you need to formally
ask them to mentor you because they might not know you're interested in
their mentorship. I've tried to seek out mentors at every stage of my career, from school to my
current role at Google. It's always good to make sure your mentors have the time
to support your growth and it's just as
important for you to keep up a professional
relationship with them. On top of a mentor, a sponsor can also help you
in your career development. But we'll talk more
about that a bit later. It's very important to figure out what you're looking
for in a mentor. This will help narrow down your list of potential
professionals. Try thinking about
your strengths and challenges at work
and how you'd like to grow as a data analyst. And share that openly with
potential mentors! It's also great to think about shared experiences
or common ground. Maybe you're a veteran
who would benefit from the guidance of a data
analyst for the military. Or maybe you just think
you could really benefit from talking with someone
from your hometown. There's no one right way to
find the perfect mentor. Your mentor doesn't even
have to work with you. If there's no one
you can connect with in your current
work environment, you can find mentors anywhere from a social
media platform, networking event or
mentor matching program. For instance, websites
like Score.org and MicroMentor.org and an
app called Mentorship allow you to look for specific credentials
that match your needs. You can then arrange
dedicated times, maybe on the platform, to meet
up or talk on the phone. Personally, I like
reaching out with a friendly email or message on a professional
networking site. If you go this route, take some time to describe
your career goals and how they might align
with their own experiences. Try mentioning some things you particularly like about their
work or published content. From there you can easily
suggest a coffee chat, virtual meetup, or email
exchange to get things going. Once you've had a few exchanges, be sure to check
in with yourself. Make sure it's a natural fit and you're getting
everything you need. It's also a good idea
to check in with your mentor to make sure it's
working well for them too. Remember, this is a partnership. You and your mentor are
equal participants. The more authentic and honest you are about it, the
better it will go. For example, it's
always a good idea to share your gratitude for
their time and effort. Now, while a mentor
will help you gain critical skills and navigate
challenges at work, a lot of people find that having a sponsor can take their
career even further. A sponsor is a professional
advocate who's committed to moving a sponsee's career
forward with an organization. To understand the difference
between these two roles, think of it like this. A mentor helps you skill up, a sponsor helps you move up. Having the support of a sponsor is like having a safety net. They can give you the confidence
to take risks at work, like asking for a new
assignment or promotion. Let's talk about how
you get a sponsor. Well, unlike mentors, you don't get to choose the sponsor. The sponsor almost
always chooses you. The best course of
action is to commit yourself to doing your
best work at all times. There's a good
chance someone with influence will take notice. Now that we've seen
the importance of networking in relationships, it's a good idea to take
some proactive steps. First, build and nurture
your LinkedIn presence. Next, look at your current
social media presence and make sure it's
helping you put your best foot forward. Finally, always be open to connecting with peers
and colleagues. You never know what great things a conversation
will bring.