Your data analysis
toolbox is getting full. Learning about both
Spreadsheets and SQL will get you far in the
world of data analysis. There's more to learn, of course, and lots more tools
you'll be able to use, but your future is
looking bright. It's about to look even brighter, because we're here to talk
more about data visualization. I'll tell you a little
more about the role of data visualization tools
and data analytics, and give you a chance to see those tools in action
later in this video. You might remember that
data visualization is the graphical
representation of information. For tons of data analysts, it's the most exciting part of their job because they get to see their hard work pay off
with something interesting. Not to mention that
data visualization is beautiful and useful. I was floored when
I got to Google and started to get a
quarterly data report in my e-mail and had a big slide deck where people contributed
their visualizations. It was definitely a
source of light as I started to build my
own visualizations. If you're not
impressed by my story, let me tell you about
Florence Nightingale. Does that name ring a bell? She is responsible for much of the philosophy of modern nursing, and believe it or not, she was also a data analyst. During the Crimean
War in the 1850s, thousands of soldiers
were dying every day, Nightingale wanted to find a way to reduce the number of deaths. After examining the data, she found that the majority of soldiers were dying from
preventable conditions. To convince hospital
administrators that they needed to focus
on these conditions, she created a chart showing the number of deaths
over several months. The much larger blue sections in the visualization represent
the preventable deaths. Her work directly led to major
changes in patient care. She did all of this over 150 years ago without a computer. One of the main reasons
Nightingale created this visualization was to make the data easier to
digest for her audience. She felt she'd be more successful convincing
the stakeholders using visuals instead of
just words and numbers. She was right, tables
filled with data, while necessary for analysis, just aren't able to show
trends and patterns as quickly and clearly as
visualizations can. Imagine, you receive
an assignment that needs to be completed
the same day. You gather the data
you need in a table, could you explain your
findings using the table? Yes, you probably could, but a better idea will be to use a visualization like
this bar graph. Something like this makes it much easier for you to
explain quickly, and you've got the benefit of a cool graphic to
backup your analysis. As a data analyst, you'll want to create
visualizations that make the data easy to understand, and interesting to look
at, so show it off. Stakeholders may not have much time to devote to the data, your job will be to make
their time worthwhile. Let's go back to
that data table we created earlier in the course. If you created your
own for practice, you can open it up now
or try this out later. Here's the data we added before. Let's create a
visualization of the data by inserting a
chart, a bar graph. You can see that the
spreadsheet visualized the data from our table in a way that made the most sense. It created a bar graph or column chart to compare the
ages of each person by name, but you might have
figured that out already. That's the beauty
of visualization, it shows data analysis
quickly and clearly. We can use chart editor
to adjust the chart. Different spreadsheet
programs might have different ways to do this, but they all have
visualization functions and ways to edit
those visualizations. For now, let's just look
at the suggested charts. We can make the bars go
horizontally using a bar chart. That looks great, so let's
close the Chart editor. There are lots of
options to look at, but we'll keep it basic for now. Feel free to try
other visualizations if you practice later. Now, we can adjust
our chart to make our whole spreadsheet look
clean and professional. Excellent. I hope
you learn to love data visualization
as much as I do. Maybe you'll become a data
visualization pioneer, just like Florence Nightingale. As a budding data analysts, you started to fill
your utility belt with valuable tools that you'll use throughout the
rest of the program. Having spreadsheets, SQL
and data visualization know-how will help make
you an ace data detective. You'll be able to use
these tools throughout the data analytics process
as you move forward. Coming up next, you complete a few activities to wrap up
this part of the program. You'll also complete
an assessment to check your understanding
of all that you learn. This is a great opportunity to think about some
of the areas that you'll continue to explore in this course and
in your career. As always, feel free to
review the videos and readings to help remind you
of certain topics and ideas, even if you already
feel prepared. You're just a few steps
away from the next course, that's great
progress. Keep it up.