As you might remember, earlier we touched on the
query language SQL. In this video, you'll see SQL in action and learn what
you can do with it, with some examples
of specific queries. I guess you can call
this the SQL sequel. We'll try to make this one
even better than the original. Remember, SQL can do lots of the same things with data
that spreadsheets can do. You can use it to store, organize and analyze your
data, among other things. But like any good sequel, it's on a larger scale,
bigger, more action-packed. Think of it as
supersize spreadsheets. For example, you might
want to consider a spreadsheet when you
have a smaller dataset, such as one with just 100 rows. But if your data set
seems to go on forever, and your spreadsheet is
struggling to keep up, SQL would be the way to go. When you use SQL, you need a place where the SQL
language is understood. If you've ever gone somewhere
and not known the language, it can be challenging
to communicate. You might think
you're asking for one thing and get something
completely different. Well, SQL knows the feeling. SQL needs a database that
will understand its language. Let's talk. There are a number of databases out
there that use SQL. You may use several of them during your time
as a data analyst. But here's the thing, no matter which
database you use, SQL basically works
for the same in each. For example, in SQL,
queries are universal. We've talked about
queries before, but it never hurts
to have a refresher. A query is a request for data or information
from a database. Here's the structure
of a basic query. You can see that
with this query we can select specific data from a table by adding where we can filter the data based
on certain conditions. Let's get started. We'll open
our database and see how SQL can communicate with it
to do some simple data task. First, let's select
our dataset. We'll use an asterisk to select all of the
data from the table. With that simple query, the database calls up
the table we need. Magic. Let's add Where to our query to show how that
changes what data we get. You can see the data
now only shows, movies that are in
the action genre. That's it, a basic query in SQL. Pretty cool, huh? Soon you'll learn about building
more complex queries. For now, though,
we can celebrate learning about the structure
of a basic SQL query, select, from, and where. As you continue the program, you have the opportunity
to use SQL yourself. I hope this video was a useful sneak peek at
what's coming later.