Congratulations on finishing
this first course. You've already learned a lot and you're ready to
take what you've learned and move forward and if you ever need a refresher, just remember that
these videos will still be here whenever you need them. You might remember your
next instructor from our introduction at the
beginning of the intro course. Get ready to meet
my fellow Googler and your instructor for the
next course, Ximena. She's ready to help you get started on your next step towards finishing this program and
becoming a data analyst. This next course will build directly on some of the
topics you've learned so far and give you insight into the things we've
already talked about. Like any good detective, you learn how to ask
the right questions and use data to find answers. Employees in every industry needs to become comfortable
asking questions, but this can especially be
true for data analysts. A lot of data analysts try
to make their work perfect the first time even though they might not have
all the information. Instead of asking questions, they make assumptions that
can lead to mistakes. It's so much better to be humble and inquisitive and
to ask questions. I'll show you what I mean. One of the analysts I supervise came into Google with
no coding experience. He was nervous about leaving
a great first impression, so he tried to study up on multiple languages by
himself before he started. When the work actually began, he didn't ask us his team questions or ask us for help when he
ran into roadblocks. There are a lot of great
places to find answers, especially online, and his initiative helped them
find some of those places. But at the end of the day, he forgot to tap into
his best resource, us, his team, because he was nervous about how he would be perceived
if he asked us for help. He almost missed out on some great insights
from his team members. As roadblocks persisted, he realized he needed
to make a change. He stopped trying to guess
expectations, processes, and more all on his own and started asking us more questions. As soon as he embraced
this new approach, he skyrocketed on our team. His learning went straight up the curve like a hockey stick. His impact on the organization, the number of people who
reached out to him and his career path going for
it all did the same. The bottom line is, you don't need to know it all. The saying is true, there are no bad questions. Being open to learning is one of the most important qualities
for a data analyst. Speaking of learning,
in the next course, we'll go into more
depth learning about basic spreadsheet skills and
when you need to use them, you'll discover how to apply structured thinking to data work, and your focus on
how to best meet stakeholder needs
and expectations by gathering all the clues. Great work, and good
luck on the next course.