Right now data is being
generated all around the world and we're
talking tons of data. Every minute of every
day millions of texts and hundreds of
millions of emails are sent. On top of that, millions
of online searches are made and videos viewed and those numbers
are only growing. That's a lot of data. Let's learn more about
how it's made and used. In this video, we'll talk about
the ways that data can be generated and how industries
collect data themselves. Every piece of
information is data. All that data is usually generated as a result of
our activity in the world. These days, we spend
a lot of time online. With social media
and mobile devices, millions and millions
of people are adding to the huge amount of data out
there, each and every day. Think about it like this. Every digital photo online
is one piece of data. Every photo itself
holds even more data, from the number of pixels to the colors contained in
each of those pixels. But that's not the only
way data is made. We can also generate data
by collecting information. This data generation and collection comes with a few
more things to think about. It needs to be done
with consideration to ethics so that we maintain
people's rights and privacy. We'll learn more
about that later on. For now, let's check out
a real world example. The United States
Census Bureau uses forms to collect data about
the country's population. This data is used for
a number of reasons, like funding for schools, hospitals, and fire departments. The Bureau also collects information about things
like U.S. businesses, creating their own
data in the process. The great thing about this
is that others can then use the data for their own
needs, including analysis. The annual business survey is used to figure
out the needs of businesses and how to provide them with resources
to help them succeed. I actually generate data in the analytics I do for
the health care industry. We run a lot of surveys
to learn how patients feel about certain things
related to their health care. For example, one survey
asked how patients feel about telemedicine versus
in-person doctor visits. The data we collected help
the companies we work with improve the care that
their patients receive. Survey data is just one example. There's all kinds of data
being generated all the time, and there's lots of
different ways to collect it. Even something as simple as an interview can help
someone collect data. Imagine you're
in a job interview. To impress the hiring manager, you want to share
information about yourself. The hiring manager
collects that data and analyzes it to help them decide whether to hire you or not. But it goes both ways. You could also collect
your own data about the company to help you decide if the company is a
good fit for you. Or you can use the data
you collect to come up with thoughtful questions
to ask the interviewer. Scientists also generate data. They use a lot of
observations in their work. For example, they might
collect data by studying animal behavior or looking at bacteria under a microscope. Earlier we talked
about the forms that the U.S. Census Bureau
uses to collect data. Forms, questionnaires
and surveys are commonly used ways to
collect and generate data. One thing to note:
data that's generated online doesn't always
happen directly. Have you ever wondered why
some online ads seem to make really accurate suggestions or how some websites remember
your preferences? This is done using cookies, which are small files stored on computers that contain
information about users. Cookies can help inform
advertisers about your personal interests and habits based on your
online surfing, without personally
identifying you. As a real world analyst, you'll have all kinds
of data right at your fingertips and
lots of it too. Knowing how it's
been generated can help add context to the data, and knowing how to
collect it can make the data analysis
process more efficient. Coming up, you'll
learn how to decide what data to collect
for your analysis. So stay tuned.