Welcome back. We've talked a lot about all the data out
there in the world. But as a data analyst, you'll need to decide
what kind of data to collect and use
for every project. With a nearly endless
amount of data out there, this can be quite a bit of a data dilemma, but
there's good news. In this video, you'll learn which factors to consider
when collecting data. Usually, you'll have
a head start in figuring out the right
data for the job, because the data you need
will be given to you, or your business task or problem will narrow down your choices. Let's start with a question like, what's causing increased
rush hour traffic in your city? First, you need to know how
the data will be collected. You might use observations
of traffic patterns to count the number of cars
on city streets during particular times. You notice that cars are getting backed up on a specific street. That brings us to data sources. In our traffic example, your observations would
be first-party data. This is data collected by an individual or group
using their own resources. Collecting first-party
data is typically the preferred method because you know exactly where it came from. You might also have
second-party data, which is data
collected by a group directly from its
audience and then sold. In our example, if you aren't able to collect your own data, you might buy it from
an organization that's led traffic pattern
studies in your city. This data didn't start with you, but it's still reliable
because it came from a source that has experience
with traffic analysis. The same can't always be said
about third-party data or data collected from outside sources who did not
collect it directly. This data might have
come from a number of different sources before
you investigated it. It might not be as reliable, but that doesn't mean
it can't be useful. You'll just want to make
sure you check it for accuracy, bias, and credibility. Actually, no matter what
kind of data you use, it needs to be inspected for accuracy and trustworthiness. We'll learn more about
that process later. For now, just remember that
the data you choose should apply to your needs, and it
must be approved for use. As a data analyst, it's your job to decide
what data to use, and that means choosing the data that can help you
find answers and solve problems and not getting
distracted by other data. In our traffic example, financial data probably
wouldn't be that helpful, but existing data about high volume traffic
times would be. Okay. Now let's talk about
how much data to collect. In data analytics, a
population refers to all possible data values
in a certain data set. If you're analyzing data
about car traffic in a city, your population would be
all the cars in that area. But collecting data from the entire population can
be pretty challenging. That's why a sample
can be useful. A sample is a part
of a population that is representative
of the population. You might collect a data
sample about one spot in the city and analyze
the traffic there, or you might pull a
random sample from all existing data
in the population. How you choose your sample
will depend on your project. As you collect data,
you'll also want to make sure you select
the right data type. For traffic data, an
appropriate data type could be the dates of traffic records
stored in a date format. The dates could help you figure what days of the week there is likely to be a high volume
of traffic in the future. We'll explore this topic
in more detail soon. Finally, you need to determine the time frame for
data collection. In our example, if you needed
an answer immediately, you'd have to use
historical data, which is data that
already exists. But let's say you needed to track traffic patterns over
a long period of time. That might affect
the other decisions you make during data collection. Now you know more about the different data
collection considerations you'll use as a data analyst. Because of that,
you'll be able to find the right data when you start
collecting it yourself. There's still more to learn about data collection, so stay tuned.