Welcome back. At this point, you've been introduced
to the world of data analytics and what data analysts do. You've also learned how this
course will prepare you for a successful career as an analyst. Coming up, you'll learn all
the ways data can be used, and you'll discover why data
analysts are in such high demand. I'm not exaggerating when I say every
goal and success that my team and I have achieved couldn't
have been done without data. Here at Google,
all of our products are built on data and data-driven decision making. From concept to development to launch, we're using data to figure out the best
way forward. And we're not alone. Countless other organizations also
see the incredible value in data and, of course, the data analysts
who help them make use of it. So we know data opens up
a lot of opportunities. But to help you wrap your head around
all the ways you can actually use data, let's go over a few examples
from everyday life. You might not realize it, but
people analyze data all the time. For instance, I'm a morning person. A long time ago,
I realized that I'm happier and more productive if I get to bed
early and wake up early. I came to this conclusion after noticing
a pattern in my day-to-day experiences. When I got seven hours of sleep and woke
up at 6:30, I was the most successful. So I thought about the relationship
between this pattern and my daily life, and I predicted that early to bed early
to rise would be the right choice for me. And I'm definitely my best self
when I wake up bright and early. I bet you've identified patterns and
relationships in your life, too. Maybe about your own sleep cycle or
how you feel after eating certain foods, or what time of day you like to workout. All of these are great examples of
real life patterns and relationships that you can use to make predictions
about the right actions to take, and that is a huge part of
data analysis right there. Now, let's put this process
into a business setting. You may remember from an earlier video
that there's a ton of data out there. And every minute of every hour of
every day, more data is being created. Businesses need a way to
control all that data so they can use it to improve processes,
identify opportunities and trends, launch new products, serve customers,
and make thoughtful decisions. For businesses to be on
top of the competition, they need to be on top of their data. That's why these companies hire data
analysts to control the waves of data they collect every day, makes sense of it, and
then draw conclusions or make predictions. This is the process of turning
data into insights, and it's how analysts help businesses
put all their data to good use. This is actually a good way to think about
analysis: turning data into insights. As a reminder, the more detailed
definition you learned earlier is that data analysis is the collection,
transformation, and organization of data in
order to draw conclusions, make predictions, and
drive informed decision-making. So after analysts have created
insights from data, what happens? Well, a lot. Those insights are shared with others,
decisions are made, and businesses take action. And here's where it can
get really exciting. Data analytics can help organizations
completely rethink something they do or point them in a totally new direction. For example, maybe data leads them to
a new product or unique service, or maybe it helps them find a new way to
deliver an incredible customer experience. It's these kinds of aha moments that
can help businesses reach another level, and that makes data analysts
vital to any business. Now that you know more of the amazing
ways data is being used every day, you can see why data analysts
are in such high demand. We'll continue exploring how analysts can
transform data into insights that lead to action. And before you know it, you'll be ready
to help any organization find new and exciting ways to transform their data.