Hey, what's good!? No, really, I want to know: What is good? Let me put it this way. If I asked you to
name a good song, I might not like it. That's because good is subjective. What I think is good
and what you think is good might be different. So what about good data sources? Are those subjective, too? In some ways they
are, but luckily, there's some best practices
to follow that'll help you measure the reliability of
data sets before you use them. That's what we'll
discuss in this video. I think we can all agree
that we all want good data. The more high quality
data we have, the more confidence we can
have in our decisions. Let's learn how we can
go about finding and identifying good data sources. First things first, we need to learn how to identify them. A process I like to
call ROCCC, R-O-C-C-C. Okay. I just made that up, but I think acronyms
are a really great way to help new information
to stick in the brain. Kicking things off is
R for reliable. Like a good friend, good
data sources are reliable. With this data you can trust that you're
getting accurate, complete and unbiased information that's been vetted and
proven fit for use. Okay. Onto O. O is for original. There's a good chance
you'll discover data through a second or
third party source. To make sure you're
dealing with good data, be sure to validate it
with the original source. Time for the first C. C
is for comprehensive. The best data sources contain all critical
information needed to answer the question
or find the solution. Think about it like this. You wouldn't want to work for
a company just because you found one great online
review about it. You'd research every aspect of the organization to make
sure it was the right fit. It's important to do the
same for your data analysis. The next C is for current. The usefulness of data
decreases as time passes. If you wanted to invite all current clients
to a business event, you wouldn't use a
10-year-old client list. The same goes for data. The best data sources are current and relevant to the task at hand. The last C is for cited. If you've ever told a
friend where you heard that a new movie sequel
was in the works, you've cited a source. Citing makes the information you're providing more credible. When you're choosing
a data source, think about three things. Who created the data set? Is it part of a
credible organization? When was the data last refreshed? If you have original data from a reliable organization
and it's comprehensive, current, and cited, it ROCCCs! There's lots of places that are known for having good data. Your best bet is to go with
the vetted public data sets, academic papers, financial data, and governmental agency data. Now that you know how to spot
the good data, which ROCCCs, you're ready to learn
about the mountain of bad data and how to avoid
it. Let's get moving.