By now you've learned
a lot about data. From generated data, to
collected data, to data formats, it's good to know
as much as you can about the data you'll
use for analysis. In this video, we'll
talk about another way you can describe
data: the data type. A data type is a
specific kind of data attribute that tells what kind of
value the data is. In other words, a data type tells you what kind of data
you're working with. Data types can be different depending on the query
language you're using. For example, SQL allows for different data types depending on which database you're using. For now though, let's focus on the data types that you'll
use in spreadsheets. To help us out, we'll use a spreadsheet that's
already filled with data. We'll call it "Worldwide Interests in Sweets
through Google Searches." Now a data type in a spreadsheet can be
one of three things: a number, a text or string, or a Boolean. You might find spreadsheet
programs that classify them a bit differently or
include other types, but these value types
cover just about any data you'll find
in spreadsheets. We'll look at all of
these in just a bit. Looking at columns B, D, and F, we find number data types. Each number represents
the search interest for the terms "cupcakes," "ice cream," and "candy"
for a specific week. The closer a number is to 100, the more popular that search
term was during that week. One hundred represents
peak popularity. Keep in mind that in this case, 100 is a relative value, not the actual
number of searches. It represents the maximum number of searches during
a certain time. Think of it like a
percentage on a test. All other searches are then
also valued out of 100. You might notice this in
other data sets as well. Gold star for 100! If you needed to, you could
change the numbers into percents or other
formats, like currency. These are all examples
of number data types. In column H, the data shows the most popular
treat for each week, based on the search data. So as we'll find in cell H4 for the week beginning
July 28th, 2019, the most popular
treat was ice cream. This is an example
of a text data type, or a string data type, which is a sequence
of characters and punctuation that contains
textual information. In this example, that information would be the treats
and people's names. These can also
include numbers, like phone numbers or numbers
in street addresses. But these numbers wouldn't
be used for calculations. In this case they're treated
like text, not numbers. In columns C, E, and G, it seems like
we've got some text. But the text here isn't a
text or string data type. Instead, it's a
Boolean data type. A Boolean data type is a data type with only
two possible values: true or false. Columns C, E, and G show Boolean data for whether the search interest for each week, is at least 50 out of 100. Here's how it works.
To get this data, we've created a formula
that calculates whether the search interest
data in columns B, D, and F is 50 or greater. In cell B4, the search
interest is 14. In cell C4, we find
the word false because, for this week of data, the search interest
is less than 50. For each cell in columns C, E, and G, the only two possible
values are true or false. We could change the formula so other words appear in
these cells instead, but it's still Boolean data. You'll get a chance to read more about the Boolean data type soon. Let's talk about a
common issue that people encounter in spreadsheets: mistaking data types
with cell values. For example, in cell B57, we can create a formula to
calculate data in other cells. This will give us the average
of the search interests in cupcakes across all
weeks in the dataset, which is about 15. The formula works because we calculated using a
number data type. But if we tried it with a
text or string data type, like the data in column
C, we'd get an error. Error values usually
happen if a mistake is made in entering the
values in the cells. The more you know your data
types and which ones to use, the less errors you'll run into. There you have it, a
data type for everyone. We're not done yet. Coming up, we'll go deeper into the
relationship between data types, fields, and values. See you soon.