Here's a riddle for you. What do a music playlist, a calendar
agenda, and an email inbox have in common? I'll give you a hint. It's not a weekly jam session. The answer is they're
all arranged in tables. Go ahead and check out your email inbox or
a favorite playlist, or look at your calendar agenda. There's tables in every one! A data table, or tabular data,
has a very simple structure. It's arranged in rows and columns. You can call the rows "records"
and the columns "fields." They basically mean the same thing, but records and fields can be used for
any kind of data table, while rows and columns are usually reserved for
spreadsheets. When talking about structured databases, people in data analytics usually
go with "records" and "fields." Sometimes a field can also
refer to a single piece of data, like the value in a cell. In any case, you'll hear both versions of these terms
used throughout this program and your job. Let's go back to our playlist example. We'll use the new terms
we just introduced. So each song is a record. Each record has the same fields as
the other records in the same order. In other words, the playlist has
the same information about each song. Each song characteristic,
like the title and the artist, is a field. Each separate field has
the same data type, but different fields can have different types. Let me show you what I mean. For the song list, the song titles
are a text or string type, while the song's length could be a number type
if you're using it for calculations. Or it could be a date and time type. The column for favorites is Boolean since it has two possible values:
favorite or not favorite. We can view spreadsheets in the same way. The records in a spreadsheet might
be about all sorts of things: clients, products, invoices,
or anything else. Each record has several fields, which reveal more about
the clients, products, or invoices. The value in every cell contains
a specific piece of data, like the address of a client or
the dollar amount of an invoice. As a data analyst, lots of data will
come your way, and records, fields, and values in data tables will
help you navigate analysis. Understanding the structures of the tables
you're working with is a part of that. And hopefully, while you're
working hard on your analysis and those tables, you can have a little
fun with a different data table: the one with your favorite playlist!