Now it's time to
discuss meetings. Meetings are a huge
part of how you communicate with team
members and stakeholders. Let's cover some easy-to-follow
do's and don'ts, you can use for meetings
both in person or online so that you can use these communication best
practices in the future. At their core, meetings make
it possible for you and your team members
or stakeholders to discuss how a project is going. But they can be so
much more than that. Whether they're
virtual or in person, team meetings can build
trust and team spirit. They give you a chance
to connect with the people you're working
with beyond emails. Another benefit is that knowing who you're
working with can give you a better perspective of where your work fits into
the larger project. Regular meetings also make it easier to
coordinate team goals, which makes it easier to
reach your objectives. With everyone on the same page, your team will be in the
best position to help each other when you
run into problems too. Whether you're leading a
meeting or just attending it, there are best practices you can follow to make sure your
meetings are a success. There are some
really simple things you can do to make
a great meeting. Come prepared, be on time, pay attention, and ask questions. This applies to both meetings you lead and ones you attend. Let's break down
how you can follow these to-dos for every meeting. What do I mean when
I say come prepared? Well, a few things. First, bring what you need. If you like to take notes, have your notebook and pens in your bag or your
work device on hand. Being prepared also means you should read the
meeting agenda ahead of time and be ready to provide
any updates on your work. If you're leading the meeting, make sure to prepare your
notes and presentations and know what you're going
to talk about and of course, be ready to answer questions. These are some other tips that I like to follow when
I'm leading a meeting. First, every meeting
should focus on making a clear decision and include the person needed to
make that decision. And if there needs to be a
meeting in order to make a decision, schedule
it immediately. Don't let progress stall by waiting until next
week's meeting. Lastly, try to keep the number of people at your meeting
under 10 if possible. More people makes it hard to have a collaborative discussion. It's also important to respect
your team members' time. The best way to do this is
to come to meetings on time. If you're leading the meeting, show up early and set up beforehand so you're ready
to start when people arrive. You can do the same thing
for online meetings. Try to make sure your technology
is working beforehand and that you're watching
the clock so you don't miss a meeting
accidentally. Staying focused and attentive
during a meeting is another great way to respect
your team members' time. You don't want to miss something important
because you were distracted by something
else during a presentation. Paying attention also means asking questions when
you need clarification, or if you think there may be a problem with a project plan. Don't be afraid to reach
out after a meeting. If you didn't get to
ask your question, follow up with the group
afterwards and get your answer. When you're the person
leading the meeting, make sure you build and send
out an agenda beforehand, so your team members
can come prepared and leave with clear takeaways. You'll also want to
keep everyone involved. Try to engage with all
your attendees so you don't miss out on any insights
from your team members. Let everyone know
that you're open to questions after the meeting too. It's a great idea to take notes even when you're
leading the meeting. This makes it easier to remember all questions
that were asked. Then afterwards you can follow up with individual team
members to answer those questions or
send an update to your whole team depending on
who needs that information. Now let's go over what
not to do in meetings. There are some
obvious "don'ts" here. You don't want to
show up unprepared, late, or distracted for meetings. You also don't want to
dominate the conversation, talk over others, or distract people with unfocused discussion. Try to make sure you give
other team members a chance to talk and always let them finish their thought before
you start speaking. Everyone who is attending your meeting should be
giving their input. Provide opportunities
for people to speak up, ask questions, call
for expertise, and solicit their feedback. You don't want to miss out on their valuable insights.
And try to have everyone put their phones or
computers on silent when they're not speaking,
you included. Now we've learned some
best practices you can follow in meetings
like come prepared, be on time, pay attention,
and ask questions. We also talked about
using meetings productively to make
clear decisions and promoting collaborative
discussions and to reach out after a meeting to address questions you or
others might have had. You also know what not to do in meetings: showing up unprepared, late, or distracted, or talking over others and
missing out on their input. With these tips in mind, you'll be well on your way to productive, positive
team meetings. But of course, sometimes there will be conflict
in your team. We'll discuss conflict
resolution soon.