It's normal for conflict to
come up in your work life. A lot of what you've
learned so far, like managing expectations
and communicating effectively can help
you avoid conflict, but sometimes you'll run
into conflict anyways. If that happens,
there are ways to resolve it and move forward. In this video, we will talk
about how conflict could happen and the best ways you can practice
conflict resolution. A conflict can pop up
for a variety of reasons. Maybe a stakeholder misunderstood the possible outcomes
for your project; maybe you and your
team member have very different work styles; or maybe an important deadline is approaching and
people are on edge. Mismatched expectations
and miscommunications are some of the most common
reasons conflicts happen. Maybe you weren't clear
on who was supposed to clean a dataset and
nobody cleaned it, delaying a project. Or maybe a teammate sent out an email with all of your
insights included, but didn't mention
it was your work. While it can be easy to
take conflict personally, it's important to
try and be objective and stay focused on
the team's goals. Believe it or not,
tense moments can actually be opportunities to re-evaluate a project and
maybe even improve things. So when a problem comes up, there are a few ways you
can flip the situation to be more productive
and collaborative. One of the best
ways you can shift a situation from
problematic to productive is to just re-frame
the problem. Instead of focusing on what went
wrong or who to blame, change the question
you're starting with. Try asking, how can I
help you reach your goal? This creates an opportunity for you and your
team members to work together to find a
solution instead of feeling frustrated
by the problem. Discussion is key to
conflict resolution. If you find yourself
in the middle of a conflict, try to communicate, start a conversation
or ask things like, are there other important
things I should be considering? This gives your team members or stakeholders a chance to
fully lay out your concerns. But if you find yourself
feeling emotional, give yourself some time
to cool off so you can go into the conversation
with a clearer head. If I need to write an email
during a tense moment, I'll actually save it to drafts and come back to
it the next day to reread it before sending to make sure that I'm
being level-headed. If you find you don't
understand what your team member or stakeholder
is asking you to do, try to understand the
context of their request. Ask them what their end goal is, what story they're
trying to tell with the data or what
the big picture is. By turning moments of
potential conflict into opportunities to collaborate
and move forward, you can resolve tension and get your project
back on track. Instead of saying, "There's
no way I can do that in this time frame," try to
re-frame it by saying, "I would be happy to do that, but I'll just take
this amount of time, let's take a step back so I can better understand
what you'd like to do with the data and we
can work together to find the best path forward." With that, we've reached
the end of this section. Great job. Learning how to work with new team members can be a
big challenge in starting a new role or a new project but with the skills you've
picked up in these videos, you'll be able to start on the right foot with
any new team you join. So far, you've learned
about balancing the needs and expectations of your team
members and stakeholders. You've also covered
how to make sense of your team's roles and focus
on the project objective, the importance of clear communication
and communication expectations in a workplace, and how to balance the limitations of data
with stakeholder asks. Finally, we covered how to have effective team meetings and how to resolve
conflicts by thinking collaboratively with
your team members. Hopefully now you
understand how important communication is to the
success of a data analyst. These communication skills
might feel a little different from some of the other skills you've been
learning in this program, but they're also an
important part of your data analyst toolkit and your success as a
professional data analyst. Just like all of the other skills you're
learning right now, your communication
skills will grow with practice and experience.