Welcome back. In this video, we're going to discuss
data integrity and some risks you might run
into as a data analyst. A strong analysis depends on
the integrity of the data. If the data you're using
is compromised in any way, your analysis won't be as
strong as it should be. Data integrity is the
accuracy, completeness, consistency, and
trustworthiness of data throughout its lifecycle. That might sound like a lot of qualities for the
data to live up to. But trust me, it's worth
it to check for them all before proceeding
with your analysis. Otherwise, your analysis
could be wrong. Not because you did
something wrong, but because the data
you were working with was wrong to begin with. When data integrity is low, it can cause anything from
the loss of a single pixel in an image to an incorrect
medical decision. In some cases, one missing piece can make
all of your data useless. Data integrity can be compromised in lots
of different ways. There's a chance data can be compromised every
time it's replicated, transferred, or
manipulated in any way. Data replication
is the process of storing data in
multiple locations. If you're replicating data at different times in
different places, there's a chance your
data will be out of sync. This data lacks integrity because different
people might not be using the same data for their findings, which can
cause inconsistencies. There's also the issue
of data transfer, which is the process of copying data from a storage device to memory, or from one
computer to another. If your data transfer
is interrupted, you might end up with
an incomplete data set, which might not be
useful for your needs. The data manipulation
process involves changing the data to make it more
organized and easier to read. Data manipulation
is meant to make the data analysis
process more efficient, but an error during the process can compromise the efficiency. Finally, data can
also be compromised through human error, viruses, malware, hacking,
and system failures, which can all lead to
even more headaches. I'll stop there. That's enough potentially
bad news to digest. Let's move on to some
potentially good news. In a lot of companies,
the data warehouse or data engineering team takes care of ensuring data integrity. Coming up, we'll
learn about checking data integrity as a data analyst. But rest assured, someone else will usually
have your back too. After you've found out what
data you're working with, it's important to double-check
that your data is complete and valid
before analysis. This will help ensure
that your analysis and eventual conclusions
are accurate. Checking data integrity
is a vital step in processing your data to
get it ready for analysis, whether you or someone else
at your company is doing it. Coming up, you'll learn even more about data integrity.
See you soon!