Hey there, it's good to remember
to check for data integrity. It's also important to check that
the data you use aligns with the business objective. This adds another layer to
the maintenance of data integrity because the data you're using might have
limitations that you'll need to deal with. The process of matching data to business
objectives can actually be pretty straightforward. Here's a quick example.
Let's say you're an analyst for a business that produces and
sells auto parts. If you need to address a question about
the revenue generated by the sale of a certain part, then you'd pull up
the revenue table from the data set. If the question is about customer reviews, then you'd pull up the reviews table
to analyze the average ratings. But before digging into any analysis, you need to consider a few
limitations that might affect it. If the data hasn't been cleaned properly,
then you won't be able to use it yet. You would need to wait until
a thorough cleaning has been done. Now, let's say you're trying to find
how much an average customer spends. You notice the same customer's data
showing up in more than one row. This is called duplicate data. To fix this, you might need to
change the format of the data, or you might need to change the way
you calculate the average. Otherwise, it will seem like the data
is for two different people, and you'll be stuck with
misleading calculations. You might also realize there's not enough
data to complete an accurate analysis. Maybe you only have a couple
of months' worth of sales data. There's slim chance you could
wait for more data, but it's more likely that you'll
have to change your process or find alternate sources of data
while still meeting your objective. I like to think of
a data set like a picture. Take this picture. What are we looking at? Unless you're an expert traveler
or know the area, it may be hard to pick out
from just these two images. Visually, it's very clear when we
aren't seeing the whole picture. When you get the complete picture,
you realize... you're in London! With incomplete data, it's hard to see the whole picture to
get a real sense of what is going on. We sometimes trust data because if it
comes to us in rows and columns, it seems like everything we need is there if we
just query it. But that's just not true. I remember a time when I found
out I didn't have enough data and had to find a solution. I was working for
an online retail company and was asked to figure out how to shorten
customer purchase to delivery time. Faster delivery times usually
lead to happier customers. When I checked the data set,
I found very limited tracking information. We were missing some pretty key details. So the data engineers and I created new
processes to track additional information, like the number of stops in a journey. Using this data, we reduced the time
it took from purchase to delivery and saw an improvement in customer
satisfaction. That felt pretty great! Learning how to deal with data issues
while staying focused on your objective will help set you up for success in
your career as a data analyst. And your path to success continues. Next step, you'll learn more about
aligning data to objectives. Keep it up!