I don't know about you, but when I'm choosing a movie to watch, I sometimes get stuck
between a couple of choices. If I'm in the mood for
excitement or suspense, I might go for a thriller, but if I need a good laugh, I'll choose a comedy. If I really can't decide
between two movies, I might even use some of
my data analysis skills to compare and contrast them. Come to think of it,
there really needs to be more movies about data analysts. I'd watch that, but since we can't watch a
movie about data, at least not yet, we'll do the next best thing:
watch data about movies! We're going to take a look at this spreadsheet with movie data. We know we can compare different
movies and movie genres. Turns out, you can
do the same with data and data formats. Let's use our movie
data spreadsheet to understand how that works. We'll start with quantitative
and qualitative data. If we check out column A, we'll
find titles of the movies. This is qualitative data
because it can't be counted, measured, or easily
expressed using numbers. Qualitative data is
usually listed as a name, category, or description. In our spreadsheet,
the movie titles and cast members are
qualitative data. Next up is quantitative data, which can be measured or counted and then
expressed as a number. This is data with a certain
quantity, amount, or range. In our spreadsheet here, the last two columns
show the movies's budget and box office revenue. The data in these columns
is listed in dollars, which can be counted, so we know that data
is quantitative. We can go even deeper
into quantitative data and break it down into
discrete or continuous data. Let's check out
discrete data first. This is data that's counted and has a limited
number of values. Going back to our spreadsheet, we'll find each movie's budget and box office returns
in columns M and N. These are both examples of discrete data that can be counted and have a
limited number of values. For example, the amount of money a movie makes can
only be represented with exactly two digits after the decimal to represent cents. There can't be anything
between one and two cents. Continuous data can be
measured using a timer, and its value can be shown as a
decimal with several places. Let's imagine a movie
about data analysts that I'm definitely going
to star in someday. You could express that
movie's run time as 110.0356 minutes. You could even add
fractional data after the decimal point
if you needed to. There's also nominal
and ordinal data. Nominal data is a type of qualitative data that's
categorized without a set order. In other words, this data
doesn't have a sequence. Here's a quick example. Let's say you're collecting
data about movies. You ask people if they've
watched a given movie. Their responses would be in
the form of nominal data. They could respond "Yes," "No," or "Not sure." These choices don't have
a particular order. Ordinal data, on the other hand, is a type of qualitative data
with a set order or scale. If you asked a group of people to rank a movie from 1 to 5, some might rank it as a 2, others a 4, and so on. These rankings are in order of how much each person
liked the movie. Now let's talk about
internal data, which is data that lives within
a company's own systems. For example, if a movie
studio had compiled all of the data in the spreadsheet using only their own
collection methods, then it would be
their internal data. The great thing about
internal data is that it's usually more reliable
and easier to collect, but in this spreadsheet, it's more likely that
the movie studio had to use data owned or shared by other studios and sources because it includes
movies they didn't make. That means they'd be
collecting external data. External data is, you guessed it, data that lives and is generated outside
of an organization. External data becomes
particularly valuable when your analysis depends on
as many sources as possible. A great thing about this data
is that it's structured. Structured data is data that's organized in
a certain format, such as rows and columns. Spreadsheets and
relational databases are two examples of software that can store data
in a structured way. You might remember our
earlier exploration of structured thinking, which helps you add a
framework to a problem so that you can solve it in an
organized and logical manner. You can think of structured
data in the same way. Having a framework for
the data makes the data easily searchable and
more analysis-ready. As a data analyst, you'll work with a lot
of structured data, which will usually
be in the form of a table, spreadsheet or
relational database, but sometimes you'll come
across unstructured data. This is data that
is not organized in any easily identifiable manner. Audio and video files are
examples of unstructured data because there's no clear way to identify or organize
their content. Unstructured data might
have internal structure, but the data doesn't
fit neatly in rows and columns like structured
data. And there you have it! Hopefully you're now
more familiar with data formats and how you
might use them in your work. In just a bit, you'll continue to explore
structured data and learn even more about the data you'll use most often as an analyst. Coming soon to a screen near you.