Every analyst has been in a situation
where there is insufficient data to help with their business objective. Considering how much data is generated
every day, it may be hard to believe, but it's true. So let's discuss what you can do
when you have insufficient data. We'll cover how to set limits for
the scope of your analysis and what data you should include. At one point,
I was a data analyst at a support center. Every day, we received customer questions,
which were logged in as support tickets. I was asked to forecast the number of
support tickets coming in per month to figure out how many additional
people we needed to hire. It was very important that we had
sufficient data spanning back at least a couple of years because I had to account
for year-to-year and seasonal changes. If I just had the current
year's data available, I wouldn't have known that
a spike in January is common and has to do with people asking for
refunds after the holidays. Because I had sufficient data, I was able to suggest we hire more
people in January to prepare. Challenges are bound to come up, but the good news is that once
you know your business objective, you'll be able to recognize
whether you have enough data. And if you don't, you'll be able to deal
with it before you start your analysis. Now, let's check out some of those
limitations you might come across and how you can handle different
types of insufficient data. Say you're working in
the tourism industry, and you need to find out which travel
plans are searched most often. If you only use data
from one booking site, you're limiting yourself to
data from just one source. Other booking sites might show different
trends that you would want to consider for your analysis. If a limitation like this impacts
your analysis, you can stop and go back to your stakeholders
to figure out a plan. If your data set keeps updating,
that means the data is still incoming and might not be complete. So if there's a brand new tourist
attraction that you're analyzing interest and attendance for, there's probably not
enough data for you to determine trends. For example, you might want to
wait a month to gather data. Or you can check in with the stakeholders
and ask about adjusting the objective. For example, you might analyze trends from
week to week instead of month to month. You could also base your analysis on
trends over the past three months and say, "Here's what attendance at the attraction
for month four could look like." You might not have enough data to know
if this number is too low or too high. But you would tell stakeholders that it's
your best estimate based on the data that you currently have. On the other hand, your data could
be older and no longer be relevant. Outdated data about customer satisfaction
won't include the most recent responses. So you'll be relying on the ratings for
hotels or vacation rentals that might
no longer be accurate. In this case, your best bet might be
to find a new data set to work with. Data that's geographically-limited
could also be unreliable. If your company is global, you wouldn't
want to use data limited to travel in just one country. You would want
a data set that includes all countries. So that's just a few of the most common
limitations you'll come across and some ways you can address them. You can identify trends with the available
data or wait for more data if time allows; you can talk with stakeholders and
adjust your objective; or you can look for a new data set. The need to take these steps will
depend on your role in your company and possibly the needs of the wider industry. But learning how to deal with insufficient
data is always a great way to set yourself up for success. Your data analyst powers are growing
stronger. And just in time. After you learn more about limitations and
solutions, you'll learn about statistical power,
another fantastic tool for you to use. See you soon!