Okay, earlier we
talked about having the right kind of data to
meet your business objective and the importance of having
the right amount of data to make sure your analysis is
as accurate as possible. You might remember that
for data analysts, a population is all
possible data values in a certain dataset. If you're able to
use 100 percent of a population in your
analysis, that's great. But sometimes collecting
information about an entire population
just isn't possible. It's too time-consuming
or expensive. For example, let's say
a global organization wants to know more about
pet owners who have cats. You're tasked with finding
out which kinds of toys cat owners in Canada prefer. But there's millions of
cat owners in Canada, so getting data from all of them would be a huge challenge. Fear not! Allow me to
introduce you to... sample size! When you use sample
size or a sample, you use a part of a population that's representative
of the population. The goal is to get
enough information from a small group within a population to make predictions or conclusions about
the whole population. The sample size helps ensure the degree
to which you can be confident that your conclusions accurately represent
the population. For the data on cat owners, a sample size might
contain data about hundreds or thousands of
people rather than millions. Using a sample for
analysis is more cost-effective and
takes less time. If done carefully
and thoughtfully, you can get the
same results using a sample size instead
of trying to hunt down every single cat owner to find out their
favorite cat toys. There is a potential
downside, though. When you only use a small
sample of a population, it can lead to uncertainty. You can't really be 100 percent sure that your statistics are a complete and accurate
representation of the population. This leads to sampling bias, which we covered
earlier in the program. Sampling bias is when a sample isn't representative of
the population as a whole. This means some members
of the population are being overrepresented
or underrepresented. For example, if the survey
used to collect data from cat owners only included
people with smartphones, then cat owners who don't have a smartphone wouldn't be
represented in the data. Using random sampling can help address some of those
issues with sampling bias. Random sampling is a way of selecting a sample
from a population so that every possible type of the sample has an equal
chance of being chosen. Going back to our
cat owners again, using a random sample of
cat owners means cat owners of every type have an equal
chance of being chosen. Cat owners who live in
apartments in Ontario would have the same chance of
being represented as those who live in
houses in Alberta. As a data analyst, you'll find that creating
sample sizes usually takes place before you
even get to the data. But it's still good
for you to know that the data you are
going to analyze is representative of the population and works with your objective. It's also good to know what's coming up in your data journey. In the next video, you'll
have an option to become even more comfortable with sample
sizes. See you there.