Welcome back in this task.
We are going to continue helping our clients decide where
to purchase office space for their business.
In the last task we selected cities within a specific
temperature range.
By the end of this task, we will learn how to narrow down
your search further by adding another selection criteria
to our SQL
query. More specifically, we will filter out our results
by considering the average commute time in each city.
So let's get started let's say our client only wants to move
to a city with an average commute time of less than an hour.
How would we do this?
We should first note that the commute time requirement is
an additional condition and conditions are specified in the
where clause.
Even though we already have one where class, it is possible
to add more than one condition as you have learned.
When you add multiple column names in the select clause,
you separate them with commas.
However, when you add additional criteria in the where clause,
they are separated by AND.
So let's add this additional condition to our where clause:
and average underscore commute the less than sign and then
60 notice we started a new line and indentation. Average
commute is a column in the cities table that stores
the average commute time in each city in minutes
and we'll use the symbol less than sign.
Now run this query.
You just narrow down the potential cities for clients to move
to even further.
You'll notice that all the cities in our results have commute
times less than 60 minutes.
In addition to the temperature range between 45 and 65°F.
Well done.
Now. To summarize in this task, our goal was to narrow down
the list of cities by adding an average commute time
requirement to your SQL query.
In the process, we learned that it is possible to add more
than one condition in a where clause and when we added
additional criteria in the where clause, those criteria are
separated by the word AND.
By the end of this task, we have identified eight cities that
match our clients ideal temperature and average commute time
requirements.
In the next task, we will finish up the query by adding the
final criteria.
Happiness ranking.
Let's go to the next task.