Hi there.
Welcome to this guided project about SQL.
My name is Harrison and I'm excited to be your instructor
for this project.
I have been an application and web developer for more
than 20 years and nearly all my projects use databases.
This is one of my favorite subjects.
Before we begin, let me introduce you to this new interface.
The screen is divided into two sides.
On one side is your virtual desktop where you will follow
along and on the other side is the instructional video that
will guide you through this project.
Your virtual desktop will be shown when you need to interact
with it.
If you would like to use it at any other time, drag the bar
on the left side of the instructor video to expand
the virtual machine, feel free to pause this video to get
familiar with the layout.
Now in this guided project you won't just learn facts
about SQL and BigQuery.
You would also solve a problem you would encounter
as a professional.
Imagine you have just started a job as a junior data analyst
at a relocation firm.
You're working with a client who is deciding where
to purchase a new office space for their business.
This decision will affect all of the company's employees who
have the opportunity to move to the new area.
So how will you make this decision?
Well turns out you have access to a dataset.
This dataset contains information about cities
around the world, the average weather commute times and even
how they rank on the happiness ranking.
So in this guided project, our goal will be to help find
the right city for the clients to buy an office based
on their requirements to do this.
We will use SQL and a platform called BigQuery
to retrieve the information we need from that dataset.
But for this first task we are going to start small.
Our goal we will simply import the raw dataset into
BigQuery. BigQuery is a platform where you can store, manage
and analyze large amounts of data.
So to get started, you will log into your google account
by inputting your login information into a secure virtual
workspace.
You will have to verify your identity in order to log
into your account. After logging in.
Some users may receive an email of a suspicious login
but that's because the virtual workspace is far from your
physical location.
Note that while taking this guided project only you
will have access to this workspace.
If you are inactive for 15 minutes, you will be logged out
and you will have to enter your login information again
to access your virtual workspace after you complete
this project the workspace is completely disposed of and we
will not save any of your personal information.
So go ahead and pause this instructional video and log in.
Play the video again when you're done.
Welcome back. At any point in this project.
If you accidentally close your browser just relaunch it
from the desktop and it will take you back to this page
after you log in.
You will be in the google cloud platform console.
You may notice that my screen appears a little different
than yours because tool interface frequently have updates.
This happens often in the world of data analytics.
So learning new interfaces will be an important part of your
future career.
Okay, now there are many ways to use BigQuery.
So we need to tell it which settings we want. In the search
bar. Search for BigQuery API, which means application
programming interface.
Press Enter. If this button says, MANAGE, your API is already
enabled and you can skip this step.
Otherwise press enable.
It will take a few seconds. Pause
the instructional video and press play again when
it is finished.
Now we're ready to use BigQuery search for BigQuery
in the search bar.
Press enter. Click on it.
Now back to our goal for this first task, let's import our
dataset.
There are many ways to do this but we are going to upload a
CSV file.
A CSV is a delimited text file that uses commas.
to separate values.
I've already pre-downloaded the CSV file you will need
to use on your desktop.
So let's open up this file, minimize the browser for now.
Double click on world cities dot CSV as the name implies.
This CSV file contains values that are separated
by commas.
The first row it's the names of the data items
in each subsequent row.
It is optional but we have included it here.
The rest of the file contains lines that correspond
to the items named in the first line.
Now let's get the data from this CSV into big query.
Go back to the Chrome browser notice on the Explorer panel.
There will be at least one default project named already
created for you.
Projects are top level containers in google cloud platform
and in our context they contain BigQuery data.
Each project has a name and a unique I. D. Yours will look
different than this and that's okay.
Click on the menu and select create dataset. In the dialog box.
Give the dataset a name.
City underscore greater accept all
defaults. Finally, click create dataset, click on the arrow next
to the project to expand the content.
We are going to create a table in this dataset.
A table is an arrangement of information or data.
Typically in rows and columns.
We don't have any tables in this data set yet.
There are many ways to create tables.
Sometimes you will do it manually.
More often you will be importing data from other sources.
We will now import the CSV
file we explore earlier. To do this.
We are going to expand the dropdown menu by clicking on the
three dots and select create table. Under source.
Select upload in the next field.
Click on browse and select world cities dot  CSV
from the desktop. On the file format,
select CSV.
For table, give it the name cities.
Check the box auto detect.
Now click the create table button. After a few seconds,
the table cities has been created. Click on it. Now we
can review the structure of the table.
There are four columns: city underscore name, average
underscore temperature, average underscore commute,
and happiness underscore ranking.
We can examine the data by clicking preview.  And that's it
for this first task.
Congratulations.
Okay now let's summarize what we did in this last task.
Our goal was to import a raw dataset into BigQuery.
To do this,
we access BigQuery by going to console dot cloud dot google
dot com.
We also learned that there are multiple ways to import a dataset
into BigQuery such as uploading a CSV
file. By the end of this task we were able to successfully
import our raw dataset called world cities dot CSV.
Into big BigQuery.
In the next task, we are going to extract our query data
from this data set to help us find cities that fit our
clients ideal temperature preferences.
Let's go to the next task.