In a previous video, I shared how data
analysis helped a company figure out where to
advertise its services. An important part
of this process was strong
problem-solving skills. As a data analyst, you'll find that problems
are at the center of what you do every single day, but that's a good thing. Think of problems as opportunities
to put your skills to work and find creative
and insightful solutions. Problems can be small or large, simple or complex, no problem is like another
and they all require a slightly different approach but the first step
is always the same: Understanding what kind of
problem you're trying to solve and that's what we're
going to talk about now. Data analysts work with
a variety of problems. In this video, we're going to
focus on six common types. These include: making
predictions, categorizing things, spotting something unusual,
identifying themes, discovering connections,
and finding patterns. Let's define each of these now. First, making predictions. This problem type involves
using data to make an informed decision about how things may be in the future. For example, a hospital
system might use a remote patient monitoring to predict health events for
chronically ill patients. The patients would take their health vitals
at home every day, and that information combined
with data about their age, risk factors, and other
important details could enable the hospital's
algorithm to predict future health problems and even reduce future
hospitalizations. The next problem type
is categorizing things. This means assigning
information to different groups or clusters
based on common features. An example of this
problem type is a manufacturer that
reviews data on shop floor employee performance. An analyst may create
a group for employees who are most and least
effective at engineering. A group for employees
who are most and least effective at repair
and maintenance, most and least
effective at assembly, and many more
groups or clusters. Next, we have spotting
something unusual. In this problem type, data analysts identify data that is different from the norm. An instance of
spotting something unusual in the real world is a school system that has a sudden increase in the
number of students registered, maybe as big as a 30 percent jump in
the number of students. A data analyst might look into this upswing and discover that several new apartment
complexes had been built in the school
district earlier that year. They could use this analysis
to make sure the school has enough resources to handle
the additional students. Identifying themes is
the next problem type. Identifying themes takes
categorization as a step further by grouping information
into broader concepts. Going back to our
manufacturer that has just reviewed data on the
shop floor employees. First, these people are
grouped by types and tasks. But now a data analyst could take those categories
and group them into the broader concept of low productivity and
high productivity. This would make it possible
for the business to see who is most and
least productive, in order to reward
top performers and provide additional support to those workers who
need more training. Now, the problem type of
discovering connections enables data analysts to find similar challenges faced
by different entities, and then combine data and
insights to address them. Here's what I mean; say a scooter company
is experiencing an issue with the wheels it
gets from its wheel supplier. That company would have to
stop production until it could get safe, quality
wheels back in stock. But meanwhile, the wheel
companies encountering the problem with the rubber
it uses to make wheels, turns out its rubber
supplier could not find the right
materials either. If all of these entities
could talk about the problems they're facing
and share data openly, they would find a lot of similar challenges
and better yet, be able to collaborate
to find a solution. The final problem type
is finding patterns. Data analysts use data to find patterns by using
historical data to understand what happened in the past and is therefore
likely to happen again. Ecommerce companies use data to find patterns all the time. Data analysts look at
transaction data to understand customer buying habits at certain points in time
throughout the year. They may find that
customers buy more canned goods right
before a hurricane, or they purchase fewer
cold-weather accessories like hats and gloves
during warmer months. The ecommerce companies can use these insights to make sure they stock the right amount of products at these key times. Alright, you've now learned six
basic problem types that data analysts
typically face. As a future data analyst, this is going to be valuable
knowledge for your career. Coming up, we'll talk a bit more about these problem
types and I'll provide even more
examples of them being solved by data analysts. Personally, I love
real-world examples. They really help me better
understand new concepts. I can't wait to share even more actual cases
with you. See you there.