You've been learning about six common
problem types of data analysts encounter, making predictions, categorizing things,
spotting something unusual, identifying themes, discovering
connections, and finding patterns. Let's think back to our real world
example from a previous video. In that example, anywhere gaming repair wanted to figure
out how to bring in new customers. So the problem was, how to determine
the best advertising method for anywhere gaming repair's target audience. To help solve this problem,
the company used data to envision what would happen if it
advertised in different places. Now nobody can see the future but
the data helped them make an informed decision about how things
would likely work out. So, their problem type
was making predictions. Now let's think about the second
problem type, categorizing things. Here's an example of a problem
that involves categorization. Let's say a business wants to improve
its customer satisfaction levels. Data analysts could review recorded
calls to the company's customer service department and evaluate
the satisfaction levels of each caller. They could identify certain key words or
phrases that come up during the phone calls and then assign them
to categories such as politeness, satisfaction, dissatisfaction,
empathy, and more. Categorizing these key words gives
us data that lets the company identify top performing customer
service representatives, and those who might need more coaching. This leads to happier customers and
higher customer service scores. Okay, now let's talk about a problem that
involves spotting something unusual. Some of you may have a smart watch,
my favorite app is for health tracking. These apps can help people stay healthy by
collecting data such as their heart rate, sleep patterns,
exercise routine, and much more. There are many stories out there
about health apps actually saving people's lives. One is about a woman who was young,
athletic, and had no previous medical problems. One night she heard
a beep on her smartwatch, a notification said her
heart rate had spiked. Now in this example think of
the watch as a data analyst. The watch was collecting and
analyzing health data. So when her resting heart rate was
suddenly 120 beats per minute, the watch spotted something unusual
because according to its data, the rate was normally around 70. Thanks to the data her smart watch gave
her, the woman went to the hospital and discovered she had a condition which
could have led to life threatening complications if she hadn't
gotten medical help. Now let's move on to the next type
of problem: identifying themes. We see a lot of examples of this
in the user experience field. User experience designers study and work to improve the interactions people
have with products they use every day. Let's say a user experience designer
wants to see what customers think about the coffee maker his
company manufactures. This business collects anonymous
survey data from users, which can be used to answer this question. But first to make sense of it all, he will need to find themes that
represent the most valuable data, especially information he can use to
make the user experience even better. So the problem the user experience
designer's company faces, is how to improve the user experience for
its coffee makers. The process here is kind of
like finding categories for keywords and phrases in
customer service conversations. But identifying themes goes even
further by grouping each insight into a broader theme. Then the designer can pinpoint
the themes that are most common. In this case he learned users often
couldn't tell if the coffee maker was on or off. He ended up optimizing the design with
improved placement and lighting for the on/off button, leading to the product
improvement and happier users. Now we come to the problem
of discovering connections. This example is from
the transportation industry and uses something called
third party logistics. Third party logistics partners
help businesses ship products when they don't have their own trucks,
planes or ships. A common problem these partners face is
figuring out how to reduce wait time. Wait time happens when a truck driver
from the third party logistics provider arrives to pick up a shipment but
it's not ready. So she has to wait. That costs both companies time and
money and it stops trucks from getting back on
the road to make more deliveries. So how can they solve this? Well, by sharing data the partner
companies can view each other's timelines and see what's causing
shipments to run late. Then they can figure out how to
avoid those problems in the future. So a problem for one business doesn't
cause a negative impact for the other. For example, if shipments are running late
because one company only delivers Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, and the other
company only delivers Tuesdays and Thursdays, then the companies can choose
to deliver on the same day to reduce wait time for customers. All right, we've come to our final
problem type, finding patterns. Oil and gas companies are constantly
working to keep their machines running properly. So the problem is,
how to stop machines from breaking down. One way data analysts can do
this is by looking at patterns in the company's historical data. For example, they could investigate
how and when a particular machine broke down in the past and then generate
insights into what led to the breakage. In this case, the company saw pattern
indicating that machines began breaking down at faster rates when maintenance
wasn't kept up in 15 day cycles. They can then keep track
of current conditions and intervene if any of these
issues happen again. Pretty cool, right? I'm always amazed to hear about
how data helps real people and businesses make meaningful change. I hope you are too. See you soon.